§ 2-000. HOW TO CITE ... Contents | Index | Help | < | >
§ 2-100. How to Cite Electronic Sources	

While the principal citation reference works still treat the citation of electronically accessed sources as though they were exceptional cases, increasingly online sources, disc, and e-book publications constitute not only print alternatives, but preferred or even primary and official distribution channels. This is true for judicial opinions, statutes, regulations, journal articles, and government reports of many kinds. Not only are many legal materials now available in paired print and electronic editions put out by a single publisher, but sources have proliferated. Today, it is far less likely than it was only a few years ago that the person writing a legal document and that document's readers will be working from exactly the same source in the same format.

This shift makes it important that, wherever possible, a citation furnish sufficient information about the cited material to enable a reader to pursue the reference without regard to format or immediate source. With the most frequently cited materials—cases, constitutions, statutes, regulations, court rules, and recent journal articles—this is typically not a challenge since most legal information distributors, whether commercial, public, or nonprofit, endeavor to furnish all the data necessary for source- and medium-independent citation.

So long as you are able to furnish all the citation information called for by § 2-200, there is no need to indicate whether you relied on any one of numerous online sources, an e-book or a disc instead of one of the several print editions for the text of a U.S. Supreme Court decision. Similarly, your citations to provisions of the U.S. Code or a comparable compilation of state statutes need not indicate whether you accessed them in print or from an electronic source, nor need you indicate that you accessed an article in a widely distributed law journal on HeinOnline, LexisNexis, Westlaw or the journal’s own Internet site.

Citations making specific reference to an electronic source are necessary only when the cited material is not widely available from multiple sources and when identifying a specific electronic source is likely significantly to aid readers' access to it.

The relevant citation principles follow; section 3-100 provides basic examples.


§ 2-110(1) Examples




Principle 1: Cite to material as it is denominated and organized in "print" unless much better access is available electronically. Even where an electronic source is used, if the original material is formatted for print, cite in relation to the print version, but follow that reference with a parallel citation to the electronic source if it is likely to aid retrieval. "Likely to aid retrieval" should, of course, be considered from the standpoint of the expected readers of the work in which the citation will appear. The following signals can be used to indicate whether:

* 	the electronic source is the only known source or the print source is, as a practical matter, unavailable (no explanatory word or phrase)
* the electronic source is a parallel reference to a print source ("available at").

¡But see § 2-115(1)!

§ 2-110(2) Examples


Principle 2: The citation should consist of all the elements required for the basic document type (e.g., case, constitution, statute, regulation, article, report, or treatise), followed by the appropriate signal, and as complete an ID or address for the online electronic source as is available.

Examples of appropriate address information include:

* the full URL of a Web-based document
* a commercial database retrieval citation (e.g., a Westlaw or LexisNexis citation)

¡But see § 2-115(2)!

Where no unique address is available indicate the source and database identification information in a parenthetical, e.g.

* (Google Scholar)
* (Westlaw, Legal Newspapers)
* (LexisNexis Veterans Benefits Manual and Related Laws and Regulations CD-ROM).

Similarly, if a complete URL is either unavailable or unwieldy and a Web search on the title will not retrieve the document, provide a base URL plus the steps necessary to access it, in parentheses, e.g.

* (follow "Data & Research" link; then follow "Policy Research Reports" link).

§ 2-110(3) Examples


Principle 3: A date should be furnished for an electronic source when the document citation does not itself carry that information unambiguously. That date should be the stated "current through" date or release date for a disc publication, the "through" date for online sources if available or a "last modified" or "last updated" date if one is furnished for the cited material or, failing all else, a "last visited" or "accessed" date. Where such a date is required, it should be placed at the end of the citation in a parenthetical. If there is already a parenthetical including source and database information (see above), the two should be combined, separated by a comma.

¡But see § 2-115(3)!

§ 2-115. Electronic Sources – Points of Difference in Citation Practice	

§ 2-115 Examples:


Point 1: Numerous courts, including the nation’s highest, do not italicize the phrase “available at” when used prior to a parallel electronic citation. Others, New York being one, place a parallel electronic address (URL, commercial database cite, database identifier) in parentheses or brackets preceded by "available at".

Point 2: The courts of some states, Ohio and Montana among them, favor “accessed” or “last accessed” over "last visited". Those of most employ the phrase “last updated” rather than “last modified”.

§ 2-120. Electronic Sources – Variants and Special Cases	

§ 2-120 Example


Scholarly articles frequently appear online prior to their appearance in print, if, indeed, that ever occurs. Often, they are issued in an institution's working paper series. Where that is the case, the working paper designation and number should be included in the citation in the parentheses containing the date.



In the U.S. legal system, judicial opinions are probably the most frequently cited category of legal material. The articulated grounds of past judicial decisions are, in many instances, binding precedent for currently litigated matters. Under other circumstances, they are "persuasive" authority. In either event, if on point, they should be cited. In the context of legal citation, judicial opinions are commonly referred to as "cases" and organized collections of opinions are called "law reports" or "case reports." Most cited "cases" are opinions of appellate courts; however, trial court rulings on questions of law do on occasion produce decisions lawyers may wish to cite, despite their limited force as precedent.

Prior to the era of electronic information dissemination, many courts that produced large numbers of legal opinions selected only a fraction of them for "publication" in law reports. The remaining "unpublished cases" were, as a practical matter, unavailable for citation. The appearance of online systems ready, even eager, to pick up and distribute "unpublished" decisions forced courts to be clearer about the status of decisions they view as merely involving the routine application of settled law. See § 2-250.

Since the decisions of American courts generally deal with multiple issues and tend to be lengthy, recounting pre-litigation facts and procedural events of limited relevance to the points for which they might be cited, it is rarely enough simply to cite the case. Under most circumstances, a full case citation should include a reference to a specific portion or portions of the opinion. A reference that merely directs the reader to a decision of the U.S. Supreme Court and no more has a greater likelihood of frustrating than persuading. It is analogous to route directions that identify the city or neighborhood but fail to furnish a complete street address.

The relevant citation principles follow; section 3-200 provides both basic examples and sample case citations from all major U.S. jurisdictions.

For a quick start introduction or review, there is also a companion video tutorial, “Citing Judicial Opinions ... in Brief”:
http://www.access-to-law.com/citation/videos/citing_judicial_opinions.html. It runs 8.5 minutes.




§ 2-210(a) Examples


Principle: The core of a case citation consists of four elements:

Element (a) - The parties' names (often referred to as the "case name" or less frequently the "title," "style," or "caption" of the case)

* Names are italicized or underlined (§ 5-100)
* and boiled down using an extensive set of omissions (§ 4-300) and abbreviations (§ 4-100),
o with a lower case "v." replacing "versus",
o and ending with a comma separating this component from the next.

§ 2-210(b) Examples


Element (b) - At least one retrieval ID or address for the case (often itself referred to as the "cite or "citation") consisting of

* a medium-neutral citation, if provided by the court, (§ 2-230)
* failing that, one constructed of:
o the reporter volume number
o reporter name (abbreviated) (§ 4-400)
o the first page of the case in that volume.

If the reference is to a portion of the opinion (as in most instances it should be), the paragraph number or numbers of that portion (with a medium-neutral citation) or the page number or numbers of that part should follow the case retrieval ID or address, set off by a comma. (Citations to one or more specific point or points in an opinion are commonly referred to as "pinpoint" or "jump" citations.)

In some situations only one ID or reporter citation is required. In others, two or more should be provided in "parallel" – i.e., in succession – separated by commas.

* Most courts that have implemented medium-neutral citation formats call for continued use of print-based case IDs in parallel, when available, although not parallel "pinpoint" pages since the paragraph numbers serve that purpose equally in print.
* When a state case is cited to a court in the same state court system and the case is reported in both an official state reporter and a Thomson West regional reporter – the official reporter address must generally be cited first, with the regional reporter address second, as a parallel cite, the two separated by a comma. Here, too, parallel “pinpoint” pages are generally not necessary since most online systems contain the pagination of both reporters. When cited to courts of another jurisdiction, state decisions that appear in a regional reporter generally need be cited only to that reporter. This can mean that the same decision will, when cited within its state, have a different citation form than when cited in other jurisdictions.
¡But see § 2-215(1)!

§ 2-210(c) Examples


Element (c) The date

* The year of decision is enclosed in parentheses if it has not already appeared in the case ID.

§ 2-210(d) Examples


Element (d) The court

* In any reference where the court is sufficiently identified by the case ID or reporter – as for example "WI" or "Wis." – no additional reference is necessary.
* The regional reporters covering numerous states and the reporters containing decisions of the lower federal courts do not sufficiently identify the court for a

particular case. Consequently, that information must be added. Court identification is placed, in abbreviated form, in the parentheses containing the year of decision.
* The abbreviation for a state standing alone identifies a decision of the jurisdiction’s highest appellate court. For that reason no notation at all is required when the state is indicated in a reporter name. For example, "(Kan. 1976)" indicates a 1976 decision of the Kansas Supreme Court while a decision of the Kansas Court of Appeals would be indicated by "(Kan. Ct. App. 1984)" and a decision of the Kansas Supreme Court cited to the official reporter would simply show the date. ¡But see § 2-215(2)!
* Whether to indicate which of several circuits, districts, divisions or departments of a court rendered a decision depends both on the court and the context for the citation. Which circuit of the U.S. Courts of Appeals or which U.S. District Court handed down a decision is always indicated. With a decision from an intermediate level state court, the information should be included in any setting where it bears on the citation's authority or is otherwise important. Thus, in a state where the decisions of one department or circuit are not binding on another one, citations should identify the unit that decided a case. When citing the same decision in another state there would be no need to do so.
§ 2-215. Case Citations – Points of Difference in Citation Practice	

Point 1: Whether to use parallel case citations and, if not, which citation to use is a subject on which court rules often speak. The practice set out here is consistent with most of them, although a few state rules call for citations of decisions from other jurisdictions to include both an official reporter reference, if any, and a Thomson West regional reporter
reference. The rules of a few others allow citation to the state’s official reports without a parallel citation to the regional reporter. See § 7-500.

Point 2: A number of state courts reject the practice of including "Ct." when abbreviating their intermediate appellate courts. In Alaska, for example, the abbreviation used for the state court of appeals is "Alaska App." rather than "Alaska Ct. App."


Most case citations refer to opinions that have already appeared in established print reporters and their conformed electronic counterparts. Opinions for which that is not true either because they are very recent or because the court or publisher of the relevant reporter did not consider the decision important enough for such dissemination call for alternative identification. The challenge in such a situation is to furnish the reader sufficient information to enable retrieval of the document from one or more specialized sources. (This is one of the problems addressed by medium-neutral citation systems. See § 2-230.) The following alternatives can be
used. While they are listed in order of traditional preference, the ultimate choice should be made in terms of the intended readers' likely access. (Before citing a decision that is not "published" because of the court's own judgment about its limited precedential importance, be sure to consult the court's rules. See § 2-250.)

§ 2-220(1) Examples


Alternative 1: With cases available in a print looseleaf service or an electronic equivalent, the minimum ID or address (following the parties' names (§ 2-210(a)) consists of:

* a full service citation, the court (abbreviated), and the full date.

§ 2-220(2) Examples


Alternative 2: With cases available in electronic format but not yet in final form, the minimum ID or address (following the parties' names (§ 2-210(a)) consists of:

* the docket number, a citation to the electronic source (§ 2-100), the "star" page number(s) assigned by the source for a pinpoint cite, the court (abbreviated and only to the extent not communicated by the online citation), and the full date.

¡But see § 2-225(1)!

§ 2-220(3) Examples


Alternative 3: With cases available only from the court in slip opinion, the minimum address (following the parties' names (§ 2-210(a)) consists of:

* the docket number, the phrase "slip op." (for "slip opinion"), the court (abbreviated), and the full date.

¡But see § 2-225(2)!

§ 2-225. Case Citations – More Points of Difference in Citation Practice	

§ 2-225(1) Examples


Point 1: Some courts omit the docket number from citations to cases that are in LEXIS or Westlaw. While that saves a modest amount of space, inclusion of the docket number facilitates access to the decision by those using another electronic source, whether it be a competing commercial online system or the court's own Web site.

§ 2-225(2) Examples


Point 2: When the decision is certain to appear in an established reporter but has not yet been published, some courts include a skeletal print citation with three underlined spaces taking the place of the missing volume and page numbers. That practice makes sense only when the citing text will, at some later point, be revised to fill in the gaps.


In 1996, the American Bar Association approved a resolution recommending that courts adopt a uniform public domain citation system "equally effective for printed case reports and for case reports electronically published on computer disks or network services" and laying out the essential components of such a medium-neutral system (see § 1-500). The American Association of Law Libraries had previously gone on record for "vendor and media neutral" citation and has since issued a Universal Citation Guide that details an approach consistent with that urged by the ABA. An increasing number of jurisdictions have adopted citation schemes embodying some or all of the elements recommended by these national
bodies. North Dakota is representative. Its court rules state in relevant part:

When available, initial citations must include the volume and initial page number of the North Western Reporter in which the opinion is published. The initial citation of any published opinion of the Supreme Court released on or after January 1, 1997, contained in a

brief, memorandum, or other document filed with any trial or appellate court and the citation in the table of cases in a brief must also include a reference to the calendar year in which the decision was filed, followed by the court designation of "ND", followed by a sequential number assigned by the Clerk of the Supreme Court. A paragraph citation should be placed immediately following the sequential number assigned to the case. Subsequent citations within the brief, memorandum or other document must include the paragraph number and sufficient references to identify the initial citation.

N.D. R. Ct. Rule 11.6 (b).

The Rule supplies examples, e.g.:

* Smith v. Jones, 1997 ND 15, 600 N.W.2d 900 (fictional).
* Smith v. Jones, 1996 ND 15, ¶ 21, 600 N.W.2d 900 (fictional).

For decisions of the North Dakota Court of Appeals, the formula is the same with the substitution of "ND App" for "ND." In jurisdictions adopting such a vendor- and medium- neutral citation scheme, that scheme should be used, together with one or more parallel reporter citations as may, indeed, be required by court rule or local practice.

While the formats and other details vary slightly, several other jurisdictions have implemented case citation schemes employing the same basic structure – case name, year, court, sequential number, and (within the opinion) paragraph number or numbers. In addition to North Dakota these include Colorado, Maine, Montana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Utah, Vermont, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. North Carolina has adopted this scheme, effective as of the beginning of 2021. In 2009 Arkansas began to designate its appellate decisions in this way, while retaining page numbers within the court-released pdf file as the means for pinpoint cites. Four other states, Louisiana, Mississippi, Ohio, and, most recently, Illinois, have adopted medium-neutral citation systems, but along the significantly different lines noted below. At the federal level, the progress has, to date, been minimal. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit began to apply medium-neutral citations to its own decisions in 1994, but it has never directed attorneys to use them or employed them itself in referring to prior decisions that have appeared in the Federal Reporter series. Among district courts, the District of New Hampshire stands alone. Since 2000 some, although unfortunately not all, of its substantive opinions have carried case designations in the format "2020 DNH 081". The court's judges use these citations in decisions, and local citation rules call upon lawyers to employ them as well.

Ohio's case numbering approach operates across the entire state court system rather than court by court, with the result that successive decisions of the state supreme court may be numbered 3957 and 3995. (These system-wide numbers are assigned by the state's reporter of decisions.) Illinois, Louisiana, and Mississippi use the docket number as the case ID rather than generating a new one based on year and decision sequence. In addition, Louisiana, like Arkansas, uses slip opinion page numbers rather than paragraph numbers for pinpoint citation. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit does the same.

Most jurisdictions adopting a medium-neutral system have done so prospectively
only. Citations to cases that pre-date the change must still employ reporter volume and page numbers. Two states, however, have retrofitted all past reported decisions with neutral citations and paragraph numbers. The court rules of one of them, Oklahoma, strongly encourage the use of the print-independent citations for those older cases, and the state’s appellate courts model the practice. In New Mexico the neutral citation system has, since 2013, been required for citations to opinions dating all the way back to 1852.

A few jurisdictions have moved to official electronic publication of case reports without altering traditional volume and page number citation. Putnam v. Scherbring, decided by the Nebraska Supreme Court in September 2017, has been "297 Neb. 868" from the moment of its release. The citation refers to the decision's volume and page number in a book that will never be printed. Official publication of the Nebraska Reports has moved online. Its volumes are now virtual. Each decision begins a fresh page. When the page count climbs to 1,000 or so, the next nominal volume is begun.


The core of a case citation includes at least two items that communicate by their absence. In other words, a case citation is read with the expectation that if certain things have occurred they will be reported as additional elements of a reference. Citations that are silent on these subjects are taken as representing that those facts are absent.

A citation consisting only of the core items represents that a clear holding of a majority of the court stands for the proposition with which the writer has associated it. It also represents that there have been no legal proceedings in the case occurring after the cited opinion that affect its authority. Finally, with a court that releases both "published" and "unpublished" or "non- precedential" decisions, in the absence of any indication otherwise, the citation of a decision represents that it has been designated for publication.

§ 2-240(1) Examples


Principle 1: If the citation is to a dissenting, concurring, or plurality opinion or to dictum, that fact should be reported in separate parentheses following the date.

§ 2-240(2) Examples


Principle 2: If there have been one or more subsequent actions in the case cited, citations to those actions should be reported following the core items, preceded by an abbreviation

indicating the nature of the action (§ 4-200). However, denials of certiorari by the U.S. Supreme Court or of similar discretionary appeals by other courts need not be reported unless they are recent (within the past two years) or otherwise noteworthy.

§ 2-240(3) Example


Principle 3: If the deciding court releases both "published" and "unpublished" or "nonprecedential" decisions and the latter carry less weight, decisions of that category should have the characterization given them by the court placed in parentheses following the date. That is unnecessary with U.S. Court of Appeals decisions cited to West's Federal Appendix Reporter since it contains only "unpublished" decisions. Before citing an unpublished decision, however, see § 2-250.


Electronic distribution of judicial opinions has given wide access to decisions that the issuing courts did not view as important or precedential. A court's withholding of such decisions from print publication once effectively limited dissemination, but no longer. While § 2-220 outlines the format to use in citing "unpublished" cases, court rules may well instruct that decisions the court has affirmatively designated not to be published should not be cited at all (or at least not unless they bear directly on a subsequent matter as, for example, through res judicata). This may be true even if a decision has in fact been published in print. Since 2001, that has been the case with many U.S. Court of Appeals "unpublished" decisions because of West's Federal Appendix Reporter. Before you cite a decision that the deciding court has labeled "unpublished" or "non-precedential," you should consult that court's rules on this point.



In the United States, constitutions and statutes are structured in a way that allows citation of relevant provisions without regard to how any particular version or edition has been printed or electronically distributed. In this fundamental sense, they are and long have been vendor- and medium-neutral. That is because articles, sections, clauses, and subsections rather than volumes and page numbers identify specific passages. This holds for such similar legal materials as local ordinances, on the one hand, and international agreements, on the other.
While these several types of legal materials share this structural quality, constitutions and statutes differ dramatically from one another in one key respect—frequency of change. The compiled enactments of Congress and the legislatures of the states are constantly subject to amendment. This reality raises a risk, although not a large one in most situations, that the text of the statute to which a writer refers and the text consulted by a reader following the writer's citation, at some later date, may be different or that the provisions governing the question being addressed are not those contained in the most up-to-date sources. These risks are a consequence of the possibility of intervening legislative change per se compounded by the amount of time it takes some publishers or disseminators to enter legislative changes in their statutory compilations. Addressing these possibilities calls for both writer and reader to pay serious attention to the date of the compilation relied on by the writer. The reader will assume that a citation to the provisions of a constitution or codified statute is referring to the version in force at the time the writing was prepared unless it includes a date element or other parenthetical note that clearly indicates otherwise.

The relevant citation principles follow; section 3-300 provides both basic examples and samples from all major U.S. jurisdictions.

For a quick start introduction or review, there is also a companion video tutorial, “Citing Constitutional and Statutory Provisions ... in Brief”:
http://www.access-to-law.com/citation/videos/citing_const_statutes.html. It runs 14 minutes.


§ 2-310(a) Examples


Principle: A citation to a provision of either the federal or a state constitution consists of two elements:

Element (a) - The name of the constitution
(The name consists of the abbreviation of the jurisdiction – e.g., U.S. for United States,
N.Y. for New York (§ 4-500) – and "Const.")

§ 2-310(b) Examples


Element (b) - The cited part
(Parts often include articles (abbreviated "art."), amendments (abbreviated "amend.") and clauses (abbreviated "cl."), in addition to sections (§).)

No punctuation separates the name of the constitution from the first part identifier; commas separate successive subparts. Nothing is italicized or underlined.

§ 2-310(c) Examples


Element (c) - The date
No date is required unless the citation is to a provision or version of the constitution no longer in effect.


Statutory provisions are, whenever possible, cited to compilations. For any U.S. jurisdiction, there is usually a single codification scheme, ordering sections into topically clustered units, even though there may be multiple versions of the code or compilation, print and electronic, public and commercial. Until the recent proliferation of electronic sources, citation norms favored citation to one particular print compilation for each jurisdiction. Most citation manuals still appear to do so, but practice is rapidly adjusting to the reality that electronic compilations are commonly more up-to-date and more widely used than print ones, that increasing numbers of U.S. jurisdictions have designated a publicly compiled, online version of their code as "official," and that up-to-date print compilations from other states are maintained in very few law libraries. It is also true that in most jurisdictions no single source, public or private, is universally relied upon.

§ 2-320-1(a) Example


Principle 1: The core of a citation to a codified federal statutory provision consists of three elements:

Element (a) -The title number followed by a space and "U.S.C." (for "United States Code")

§ 2-320-1(b) Example


Element (b) - The section number preceded by the section symbol and space

§ 2-320-1(c) Examples


Element (c) – The date
If the provision being cited is currently in effect and has not been the subject of recent change, no date element need be included. However, if the provision being cited has, by the time of writing, been repealed or amended or if it has only recently been enacted, the date of a compilation that contains the language cited should be provided in parentheses. The precise form this takes will be governed by the form in which that compilation presents its cutoff date.

No punctuation separates these elements. Nothing is italicized or underlined.

¡But see § 2-335!

§ 2-320-2(a) Examples


Principle 2: The core of a citation to a codified state statutory provision consists of the same basic elements in a slightly different order. Unlike citations to the U.S. Code which begin with a title number, references to most state codes lead off with the name of the state code (abbreviated):

Element (a) - The name of the code (abbreviated)

§ 2-320-2(b) Examples


Element (b) - The number of the section or part, using the division identifiers of the jurisdiction's code (In some states major divisions of the code are designated by name rather than by number.)

§ 2-320-2(c) Examples


Element (c) - The date
If the provision being cited is currently in effect and has not been the subject of recent change, no date element need be included. However, if the provision being cited has, by the time of writing, been repealed or amended or if it has only recently been enacted, the date of a compilation that contains the language cited should be provided in parentheses. The precise form this takes will be governed by the form in which that compilation presents its cutoff date.

¡But see § 2-335!

§ 2-330. Statute Citations – Conditional items	

§ 2-330(1) Examples


Principle 1: If possible, the reference should be given in generic format using the framework of the jurisdiction's designated "official" codification – such as the United States Code or Iowa Code. If an unofficial commercial codification must be relied upon in order to reference a recent legislation change, it is customary to use that product's branded abbreviation if different from the official code (U.S.C.A. or U.S.C.S. rather than U.S.C.; Iowa Code Ann. rather than Iowa Code) and to place the publisher's name, brand, or online source (abbreviated) ahead of the date information in a concluding parenthetical.

¡But see § 2-335!

§ 2-330(2) Examples


Principle 2: The reader of a statutory citation will expect that it refers to the statute as currently in force unless the reference says otherwise. If that is not the case or the provision has only recently been enacted, a date for the compilation relied upon should be furnished. The precise form this takes will be governed by the form in which that compilation presents date information.

¡But see § 2-335!

§ 2-335. Statute Citations – Points of Difference in Citation Practice	

§ 2-335(1) Examples


Point 1: Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation direct a writer to cite to a publicly produced or supervised statutory compilation (generally referred to as an "official" code) if the provisions referred to are contained in it. In other cases, conventional practice during the print era, encouraged by the major publishers and reflected in both citation guides, was to identify the publisher of a commercially produced statutory compilation, and, with the two principal annotated versions of the United States Code, to use abbreviations of their brand names (U.S.C.A. and U.S.C.S.). Especially, as sources and versions have multiplied, however, usage has moved toward the citing of statutes by means of their generic or "official" designation without regard to the source actually used by the writer. If followed rigorously, this approach involves dropping the superfluous notation ("Ann."), which simply indicates that the code relied upon was annotated, and leaving the publisher's name or brand out of the concluding parentheses. The existence or nonexistence of annotations in the compilation relied on by the writer has no bearing on the statutory language itself, and, as a consequence of the shifts in ownership and branding that have occurred in commercial law publishing and the divergence between print and electronic versions of compilations bearing the same brand, references to "the publisher" are no longer straightforward.

While this is the practice of nearly all appellate courts and most lawyers, neither The Bluebook nor the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation goes so far. While both remove branding elements from the name of state (but not federal) statutory compilations, they still include

references to the publisher in a concluding parenthetical. Both manuals also include "Ann." when the cited code is annotated.

To illustrate, the official compilation of Indiana statutes is regularly cited "Ind. Code § x." According to The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation citations to the commercial compilation of Indiana statutes long known as "Burns Indiana Statutes Annotated" should take the form "Ind. Code Ann. § x (LexisNexis year)" while those to "West's Annotated Indiana Code" should read "Ind. Code Ann. § x (West year)."

§ 2-335(2) Examples


Point 2: While it is the practice in the opinions of and briefs submitted to the U.S. Supreme Court, the U.S. Courts of Appeals, and a majority of state courts to omit any date element from statute citations unless the provisions have been or are likely to be subject to amendment, both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for the routine inclusion of the year or some alternative indication of the cited compilation's currency. Very likely this reflects the degree to which they remain bound by a print paradigm and their focus on law journal publication.

§ 2-335(3) Examples


Point 3: A standard and recurring component of state statute and regulation citations is an abbreviation of the state name. One area of citation practice on which there is widespread state variation is the abbreviation of a state's code when cited by or to that state’s own courts. The abbreviations used on the examples in this introduction (§ 3-320), like the two dominant national citation references, are full enough to distinguish unambiguously between a citation to a provision of the Alaska Statutes and one to a similarly numbered section of the codes of Alabama, Arizona and Arkansas. When context leaves little or no doubt about which state's statutes are being cited, the case with briefs submitted to and decisions rendered by the courts of a particular state, significant citation space can saved with little or no loss by having the state name supplied by implication. In decisions of the Alaska Supreme Court and briefs submitted to it, "AS" is commonly used instead of "Alaska Stat."; in Kentucky it is understood that "KRS" stands for "Kentucky Revised Statutes" and not statutes of the state of Kansas. In Idaho, "I.C." is a commonly used short form of "Idaho Code" while in Indiana it signifies "Indiana Code." At the extreme, this form of state-specific citation dialect leaves off all explicit reference to the state. A reference in an Ohio brief to "R.C." is understood as referring to Ohio's "Revised Code"; one in a New York brief to a section of the "General

Municipal Law" and one in a California brief to a section of the "Penal Code" are understood as referring to the respective state's codified statutes.


§ 2-340(1) Examples


Special Case 1 – Session Laws: Don't cite a statute to the session laws (the compiled enactments of a legislative body during a particular session) if a codified version will serve your purposes. This principle confines session law citations to:

* 	very recent enactments (provisions not yet codified even in supplements or pocket parts or online versions),
* enactments that are not codified because they are not of general applicability,
* 	situations where the reference is to enactment itself or to provisions that have since been repealed or modified,
* 	provisions that are so scattered across the code that a reference to the session laws is more efficient, and
* 	those rare cases in which the language in the codified version differs in some significant way from the session laws.

A session law reference consists of: the name of the statute (or if not named "Act of [date]"), its public law number ("Pub. L. No.") or equivalent state designation, and the source. In the case of a recent enactment this will most likely be electronic. See § 2-110. Where a print source is used the reference consists of a volume or year number followed by the name of the publication, abbreviated ("Stat." or "U.S.C.C.A.N." in the case of a federal act) and a page number. The year of enactment, in parentheses, is included in cases where that information is important and it has not already appeared as part of the name.

¡But see § 2-335!

§ 2-340(2) Example


Special Case 2 – Bills: Bills are cited either when they support a point about the legislative history of an enactment or when the reference concerns proposed legislation that was not enacted.

§ 2-340(3) Example


Special Case 3 – Named Acts: Some statutes are commonly referred to by name, and in a number of these cases, section references from the original legislation are still widely used. Such references should never substitute for a core reference to the legislation as codified, but they can be added to it.

§ 2-340(4) Example


Special Case 4 – The Internal Revenue Code: An important exception to the general norms for citation of federal statutes allows (but does not require) references to the Internal Revenue Code to be in the form: I.R.C. §   . This is a substitute for 26 U.S.C. §   ..

§ 2-340(5) Examples


Special Case 5 – Uniform Acts and Model Codes: When a uniform act or model act or code has been adopted by a state and is being referred to as the law of that state, it is cited like any other state law. When a reference is to the uniform law or model code apart from its adoption and interpretation in a particular state, the citation should consist of the name of the uniform law or code (as abbreviated), section number, and the year that law or code (or major subpart) was promulgated or last amended. In the case of uniform laws a parallel citation to the Uniform Laws Annotated (U.L.A.) may be helpful.

The Bluebook now prescribes adding the name of the sponsoring entity or entities, abbreviated, in the concluding parenthetical. For most uniform laws that would be "Unif. Law Comm'n", but because of the distinctive history of the Uniform Commercial Code it would in the case of the U.C.C. require adding "Am. Law Inst. & Unif. Law Comm'n". For the Model Business Corporations Act the resulting insertion would be "Am. Bar Ass'n". To date this new requirement has found little support in professional citation practice. Nor does the sixth edition of the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation appear fully to embrace the change.




§ 2-350 Examples


Ordinances governing cities, towns, or counties are cited like statutes. Just as the standard form for a citation to a state statute includes the name of the state (abbreviated), an ordinance citation is prefaced by the name of the political subdivision it governs.


§ 2-360(1) Examples


Principle 1: The core of a citation to a treaty, international convention, or other international agreement consists of three elements:

Element (a) - The name of the treaty or agreement

Element (b) - The date of signing or approval

Element (c) - A source for the text likely to be accessible to the reader

§ 2-360(2) Examples


Principle 2: Three additional elements may be appropriate:

Element (a) - Conventions that are the product of an international organization should either include the organization's name as part of the name of the agreement or be preceded by that name.

Element (b) - So long as there are no more than three parties to the agreement, their names (abbreviated) should be listed, set off by commas and separated by hyphens, following the agreement's name.

Element (c) - When citing to a portion of the agreement, the cited subdivision, as designated in the agreement, should be included directly following the treaty name and parties, if listed.



Regulations and other agency material, particularly the output of state agencies, have become dramatically more accessible as print distribution has been supplemented or supplanted by online dissemination. Print compilations of agency regulations in even the largest states tended to be expensive and hard to keep up-to-date, characteristics that confined them to large law libraries. Now most agency material is accessible on the Internet, much of it from public, non-fee sources. Many adjudicative agencies are also now placing their decisions at a public Web site. Greater accessibility should lead to more citation of this category of primary material.

The relevant citation principles follow; section 3-400 provides both basic examples and samples from all major U.S. jurisdictions.

For a quick start introduction or review, there is also a companion video tutorial, “Citing Agency Material ... in Brief”:
http://www.access-to-law.com/citation/videos/citing_agency_material.html. It runs 12 minutes.


Like statutes, agency regulations are cited to codifications if possible.

§ 2-410(1) Examples


Principle 1: The core of a citation to a codified federal regulation consists of three elements:

Element (a) - The title number followed by a space and "C.F.R." (for "Code of Federal Regulations")

Element (b) - The section number preceded by the section symbol and a space

Element (c) - The date
If the provision being cited is currently in effect and has not been the subject of recent change, no date element need be included. However, if the provision being cited has, by the time of writing, been repealed or amended or if it has only recently been enacted, the date of a compilation that contains the language cited should be provided in parentheses. The precise form this takes will be governed by the form in which that compilation presents its cutoff date.

No punctuation separates these elements. Nothing is italicized or underlined.

§ 2-410(2) Examples


Principle 2: The core of a citation to a codified state regulation consists of comparable elements, in slightly different order and adjusted to the nomenclature of the particular codification. Unlike citations to the C.F.R. which begin with a title number, references to most state codes lead off with the name of the state code (abbreviated). If the reader may not be familiar with how to access the code and it is online (as most state codes now are), a parallel electronic citation may be useful. See § 2-110.

¡But see § 2-415!

§ 2-415. Regulation Citations – Points of Difference in Citation Practice	

§ 2-415 Examples


Point 1: State regulations are even more rarely cited outside their state of origin than state statutes are. Consequently, their abbreviations according to settled usage within a state often fill in the full identification of that state by implication. This is also true with statutes. (See § 2-335(3).) Thus, while The Bluebook and ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for Alaska regulations to be cited to "Alaska Admin. Code tit. x, § y (year)," in decisions of the Alaska Supreme Court and briefs submitted to it, an Alaska regulation will typically be cited "[title] AAC [section]."




§ 2-420 Examples


Special Case 1: Federal regulations not yet codified or citations to a regulation as originally promulgated are cited to the Federal Register (Fed. Reg.), preceded by name or title of the regulations. If the regulation is to be codified in C.F.R., the location where it will appear or the portion it amends should, in most cases, be furnished parenthetically.

Special Case 2: State regulations not yet codified or citations to regulations as originally promulgated are cited to an equivalent publication or Web site.

Special Case 3: Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which are not codified in C.F.R., are cited to the manual in which they are published by the U.S. Sentencing Commission. The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation prescribe adding the name of the sponsoring entity, abbreviated, in the concluding parenthetical. For the Sentencing Guidelines it would require adding "U.S. Sentencing Comm'n".


§ 2-450 Examples


Agency adjudications are cited the same as judicial opinions (cases) (see § 2-200) with the following differences of detail:

Principle 1: Names are not italicized or underlined.

Principle 2: The cited name is that of the first private party only (abbreviated as with judicial opinions), or the official subject-matter title, omitting all procedural phrases. (If

the procedural posture of the case is important information it can be summarized in a parenthetical phrase following the date.)

Principle 3: The agency's official reporter is cited whenever possible. If no official reporter citation is available, the decision is cited with agency's assigned identification number and full date, plus a parallel citation to an electronic source, an unofficial reporter or service if possible.

Principle 4: If the name of the agency is not adequately revealed by the name of the reporter, it should be included (abbreviated) in the parentheses ahead of the date.

¡But see § 2-455!


§ 2-455 Examples


Point 1: The ALWD Guide to Legal Citation and most federal courts employ a format more tightly analogous to that employed for judicial opinions, including the italicizing of party names.


§ 2-470 Examples

–


Principle 1: Citations to agency reports, published periodically in volumes, take the same form as journal articles (see § 2-800).

Principle 2: Citations to agency reports that are titled and disseminated separately take the same form as books by institutional authors (see § 2-720(1)). Where the agency numbers its reports, as does the U.S. Government Accountability Office (formerly the General Accounting Office) that designation should be included as part of the title.




§ 2-480(1) Examples


Principle 1: The core of a citation to a federal executive order or presidential proclamation consists of four elements:

Element (a) - The designation "Exec. Order" or "Proclamation" followed by a space and "No." (for number)

Element (b) - The order or proclamation number followed by a comma and space

Element (c) - A citation to the Federal Register in which the order or proclamation was published (see § 2-420) or if it is likely to be more accessible the Code of Federal Regulations edition into which it was compiled (i.e. that for the following year) followed by a space

Element (d) - The date or year in parentheses (the date of the Federal Register publication or the year of the C.F.R. compilation, not the date of the order or proclamation)

§ 2-480(2) Examples


Principle 2: Two additional elements may be appropriate:

Element (a) - The core elements can be preceded by the title of the order or proclamation followed by a comma and space

Element (b) - With recent documents a parallel electronic citation may be useful; all executive orders and proclamations from 1993 on are accessible online. See § 2-110.

§ 2-480(3) Examples


Principle 3: The core of a citation to a state governor's executive order or proclamation consists of comparable elements preceded by the state abbreviation, adjusted to the nomenclature of the particular compilation in which it appears (if any).


§ 2-490(1) Examples:


Principle 1: The core of a citation to an advisory opinion by the U.S. Attorney General, state counterparts, and similar legal officers consists of two sets of elements:

Element (a) - The name of the office issuing the opinion (abbreviated) and the abbreviation "Op."

Element (b) - A volume and page number followed by the year if the opinion has been published. The opinion number, if any, and full date if it has not been.

§ 2-490(2) Examples


Principle 2: Two additional elements may be appropriate:

Element (a) - The core elements can be preceded by the title of the opinion followed by a comma and space

Element (b) - With recent opinions a parallel electronic citation may be useful. See § 2- 110.

§ 2-490(3) Examples


Principle 3: The core of a citation to a state officer's advisory opinion consists of the same elements as citations to those of federal officers; however, the office name is preceded by the state abbreviation and the abbreviation "Op." is shifted to the end.



§ 2-500 Examples


Principle 1: Citations to arbitration decisions or awards take the same form as court cases if the adversarial parties are named. See § 2-210.

Principle 2: Citations to arbitration decisions or awards take the same form as administrative adjudications if the adversarial parties are not named. See § 2-450.

Principle 3: In either case the citation should include one additional information item–the arbitrator's last name–in parentheses at the end of the citation.


§ 2-600 Examples


Rules of evidence, court procedure, and those governing the practice of law are most commonly issued by a jurisdiction's judiciary. Typically, they are compiled in separate sets that are grouped by topic ("rules of civil procedure," rules of evidence," and so forth). In a few states they are codified together with its statutes. The pattern of organization and citation long employed for federal courts rules is set out above. While some states follow the same model, many do not. Like state agency regulations, rules governing procedure in one state's courts rarely bear on proceedings in another. This results in a wide range of state-specific citation formats. With many of them the name of the jurisdiction is referenced by a single letter or simply implied. In Ohio, for example, a citation to "Evid.R. 606(B)" refers that state's rules of evidence. A citation to an Oregon court of "ORAP 7.55" directs it to the Oregon Rules of Appellate Procedure. The Bluebook is of no help on these local variants. (See The Bluebook’s Treatment of Court Rules, Citing Legally, https://citeblog.access-to- law.com/?p=1053.)

Principle: Court rules are cited by name of the set of rules (beginning with the jurisdiction) and the rule number. The name is abbreviated. According to The Bluebook, the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation, and widespread practice, no date need be included so long as the citation's reference is to the rule currently in effect.



The relevant citation principles follow; section 3-700 provides basic examples.


§ 2-710(a) Examples


Principle: A standard book citation consists of the following elements (in order):

Element (a) - The volume number (if it is a multi-volume work)
¡But see § 2-715(1)!

§ 2-710(b) Examples


Element (b) - The full name of the author(s) followed by a comma

* Works by more than two authors are cited using the first author's name and "et al." unless the inclusion of the other authors' names is significant.
* Works by two authors are cited using both names separated by "&".
* Each author's full name should be given as it appears on the publication, but omitting any appended titles or academic degrees, such as Prof. or Ph.D.
¡But see § 2-715(2)!

§ 2-710(c) Examples


Element (c) - Title (italicized or underlined), with all words other than prepositions and conjunctions begun with a capital letter

§ 2-710(d) Examples


Element (d) - Cited portion(s) of the book indicated by section, paragraph, or page number.

§ 2-710(e) Examples


Element (e) - Parentheses containing the edition number (if there have been multiple editions) and year of publication. When citing from the online version of a treatise the year should be the year in the copyright notice on the page.
¡But see § 2-715(3)!

§ 2-720. Book Citations – Variants and Special Cases	

§ 2-720(1) Examples


Special Case 1 – Works by Institutional Authors: [BB|ALWD]

Works by institutional authors are cited like books by individuals with the name of the institution substituting for the name of an individual author. If an individual author is credited for the work along with the institution, both are listed with the individual author coming first. Where multiple units or division of the institution are listed on the work, the citation includes the smallest unit first and then skips to the largest, omitting all in between. In cases where an individual author is cited, the name of that author substitutes for the smallest unit.

§ 2-720(2) Examples


Special Case 2 – Services: [BB|ALWD]

Compilations organized around specialized fields include a wide variety of material, ranging from statutes to brief commentary. They are a frequent source of otherwise unpublished cases.

Citations to material in such a service include the name or title of the cited document in accordance with the rules applicable to its type (cases, administrative material, etc.). The portion of the citation identifying the document's address in the service includes: volume, abbreviated title (not italicized), publisher in parentheses, subdivision. In cases where the volume designation is not simply a number it should be placed in brackets to separate it from the work's title. The date accompanying the citation (in most cases, at the end, in parentheses) is the full date of the cited document.

§ 2-720(3) Examples


Special Case 3 – Restatements: [BB|ALWD|IB]

Restatements are not attributed to an author; they are cited simply by name, subdivision, and year. Since 2015 The Bluebook has prescribed adding the name of the sponsoring entity, abbreviated, in the concluding parenthetical. For Restatements that would be "Am. Law Inst." While the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation has accepted the change, to date this requirement has found only limited support in professional citation practice. Most judicial opinions omit the added, and arguably unnecessary, text.

§ 2-720(4) Example


Special Case 4 – Annotations: [BB|ALWD]

Annotations in the American Law Reports (A.L.R.) are treated as articles in a collection or journal. Since the online versions in LexisNexis and Westlaw fail to show original interior pagination and are continuously updated, they require the use of section numbers in any pinpoint reference and, if cited for recent material, may call for use of the current year rather than the year of initial publication.



The relevant citation principles follow; section 3-800 provides both basic examples and further samples from a diversity of major U.S. law journals.


§ 2-810(a) Examples


Principle: The components of a journal article citation are, in order:

Element (a) -The full name of the contributing author followed by a comma

* Works by more than two authors are cited using the first author's name and "et al." unless the inclusion of the other authors' names is significant.
* Works by two authors are cited using both names separated by "&".
* Middle names are NOT reduced to initials unless that is how they appear in the original work.

§ 2-810(b) Examples


Element (b) - The article title in full (italicized or underlined) followed by a comma, with all words other than prepositions and conjunctions begun with a capital letter

§ 2-810(c) Examples


Element (c) - The volume number

* If the journal has no separate volume number but is paginated consecutively through a year's issues use the year as the volume number.

§ 2-810(d) Examples


Element (d) - The journal name (abbreviated)

§ 2-810(e) Examples


Element (e) - The page number(s)

* The first page of the article always appears.
* If the citation is to a portion of the article, those pages should be listed as well, set off from the first page with a comma.

§ 2-810(f) Examples


Element (f) - The year of publication in parentheses (unless it is contained in the volume number)


Journal material other than articles by contributing authors is cited in similar form with the following differences of detail:

§ 2-820(1) Examples


Special Case 1 – Student Writing by a Named Student:

* The category or type of piece is added after author's name (set off by commas).
* The piece is identified only by category if there is no title or only a long digest-like heading.
¡But see § 2-825(1)!

§ 2-820(2) Examples:


Special Case 2 – Unsigned Student Writing:

* The category or type of piece is indicated where author's name would appear.
* 	The piece is identified only by category if there is no title or only a long digest-like heading.
¡But see § 2-825(1)!

§ 2-820(3) Examples


Special Case 3 – Book Reviews:

* 	If the review is by an author who is not student editor, the core citation is followed by a parenthetical simply identifying the piece as a book review or indicating the work reviewed.
* 	If the review by a student editor, it is cited like other student journal writing and given the category "Book Note".
¡But see § 2-825(1)!

§ 2-820(4) Examples


Special Case 4 – Symposia and the Like:

* 	Articles that are part of a symposium or survey are cited independently unless the name of the symposium must be added to the title of the article for its scope to be clear.
* 	If the symposium or survey is cited as a unit, include the appropriate category label before the title of the unit unless the title already includes the term.

§ 2-820(5) Examples


Special Case 5 – Tributes, Dedications and Other Specially Labeled Articles:

* 	With articles carrying a designation like "Tribute," "Dedication," or "Commentary," that label should be added after author's name (set off by commas).
* 	If there is no named author, the designation is indicated where the author's name would appear.

§ 2-820(6) Examples


Special Case 6 – Articles in Journals with Separate Pagination in Each Issue:

* 	With articles appearing in journals that have separate, nonconsecutive pagination in each issue or in special issues that are separately paginated, the volume number is not indicated, but the issue is identified by the date, as it appears on the cover, set off by commas, following the journal name.
* Page numbers, preceded by the word "at," follow the issue date.



§ 2-900 Examples


The major citation guides focus primarily on citations to legal authority—judicial opinions, statutes, and commentary. A second type of citation is at least equally important to the writing that lawyers file with judges in litigation—namely one that refers with precision to prior events or documents in the case or to portions of the record upon an appeal. Rules of appellate procedure routinely require that assertions about the facts of a case be supported by citations to the record, and courts have held non-compliant arguments to be barred.

References to the record and other case documents in a brief or memorandum are placed in parentheses. The document's name is not italicized or underlined, but initial letters are capitalized. Standard abbreviations (§ 4-900) exist for many of the document types. Pinpoint citations are indicated using the division (paragraph, number, page) of the document in question. Citation to a particular page (or range of page numbers) in the record is, customarily, preceded by the word "at" followed by the page number. The date of the event is furnished with depositions, trial testimony, and in other situations where it will aid the
reader. When the document is held in a court case management system like the federal courts' CM/ECF which assigns document numbers that designation should also be included.

In jurisdictions with electronic filing and electronic case records new citation forms designed to facilitate programmatic linking of references to the record have begun to emerge. For example, the Fifth Circuit, U.S. Court of Appeals, now requires that references in a brief to the electronic record employ the format "ROA," followed by a period, followed by the page number (e.g., ROA.123). With electronically filed memoranda and briefs, growing numbers of judges have begun to encourage attorneys to submit them with all references to the electronic record already hyperlinked. Several U.S. District Courts (Kansas, Nebraska, Utah) furnish guidance on software that facilitates such linking. It requires consistent use of the same format for record citations throughout a document.

In a number of states the record will, in some instances, not be transcribed but consist of an audio or video recording. References to such a record will, necessarily, consist of an identification of the recording and the counter number or time at which the cited material is located.

§ 3-000. EXAMPLES – CITATIONS OF ... Contents | Index | Help | < | >


Illustrations

American Bar Association, Section on Legal Education and Admissions to the Bar, Statistics, http://www.americanbar.org/groups/legal_eduation/resource s/statistics/ (last visited Nov. 17, 2020).
Matthew Bender Practice Guide: Federal Pretrial Civil Procedure in California § 6.08 (e-book, 2020).


Illustrations

Wilson v. Mar. Overseas Corp., 150 F.3d 1, 6-7 (1st Cir. 1998).
Meier v. Said, 2007 ND 18, ¶ 22, 726 N.W.2d 852.

For short form examples see § 6-520.

Additional Examples

Full Range of: Federal Court Decisions | State Court Decisions

Federal Case Citations:
* Supreme Court
* Courts of Appeals
* Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
* District Courts
* Bankruptcy Courts and Bankruptcy Panels
* Court of Federal Claims
* Tax Court
* Military Service Courts of Criminal Appeals

Supreme Court
* Brown v. Helvering, 291 U.S. 193, 203 (1934).
* 	John Doe Agency v. John Doe Corp., 493 U.S. 146, 159-60 (1934) (Stevens, J., dissenting).
* 	Assured Guar. Corp. v. Fin. Oversight & Mgmt. Bd. for P.R., 140 S. Ct. 855, 205 L. Ed. 2d 459 (2020).
* 	Cammisano v. U.S. Senate Permanent Subcomm. on Investigations, 454 U.S. 1084 (1981).
* Off. of Pers. Mgmt. v. Richmond, 496 U.S. 414 (1990).
Courts of Appeals
* N.Y. State Citizens' Coal. for Child. v. Poole, 935 F.3d 56 (2d Cir. 2019).
* Alderson v. Concordia Par. Corr. Facility, 848 F.3d 415 (5th Cir. 2017).
* Salinas v. Com. Interiors, Inc., 848 F.3d 125 (4th Cir. 2017).
* Glob. Quest, LLC v. Horizon Yachts, Inc., 849 F.3d 1022 (11th Cir. 2017).
* In re NFL Players Concussion Inj. Litig., 821 F.3d 410 (3d Cir. 2016).
* ACLU of Mass. v. U.S. Conf. of Cath. Bishops, 705 F.3d 44 (1st Cir. 2013).
* Little v. Shell Expl. & Prod. Co., 690 F.3d 282 (5th Cir. 2012).
* Worsham v. Accts. Receivable Mgmt., 497 Fed. Appx. 274 (4th Cir. 2012).
* Shames v. Cal. Travel & Tourism Op. Comm’n, 607 F.3d 611 (9th Cir. 2010).
* Symantec Corp. v. Comput. Assocs. Int'l, Inc., 522 F.3d 1279 (Fed. Cir. 2008).
* Wernsing v. Dep't of Hum. Servs., 427 F.3d 466 (7th Cir. 2005).
* Antonov v. Cnty. of Los Angeles Dep't of Pub. Soc. Servs., 103 F.3d 137 (9th Cir. 1996).
* 	Chatchka v. Soc'y for Concerned Citizens Interested in Equal., 69 F.3d 666 (5th Cir. 1996).
* Comm. to Prevent Mun. Bankr. v. Renne, 77 F.3d 488 (9th Cir. 1996).
* Cong. Fin. v. Commercial Tech., Inc., 74 F.3d 1253 (11th Cir. 1995).
* 	Shoemaker v. Accreditation Council for Graduate Med. Educ., 87 F.3d 1322 (9th Cir. 1996).
* Nat. Res. Def. Council v. NRC, 216 F.3d 1180 (D.C. Cir. 2000).
* Wilson v. Mar. Overseas Corp., 150 F.3d 1 (1st Cir. 1998).
* Phillips Exeter Acad. v. Howard Phillips Fund, Inc., 196 F.3d 284 (1st Cir. 1999).
* Grace Bible Fellowship, Inc. v. Me. Sch. Admin. Dist. No. 5, 941 F.2d 45 (1st Cir. 1991).
* Pub. Int. Rsch. Grp. v. Powell Duffryn Terminals, 913 F.2d 64 (3d Cir. 1990).
* A.B.C. Bus Lines v. Urban Mass Transp. Admin., 831 F.2d 360 (1st Cir. 1987).
* Orange Cnty. Agric. Soc'y, Inc. v. Comm'r, 893 F.2d 529 (2d Cir. 1990).
* Shiau v. U.S. Dep't of Agric., 895 F.2d 1410 (2d Cir. 1989).
* S'holders v. Sound Radio, 109 F.3d 873 (3d Cir. 1997).
* Barry v. Bergen Cnty. Prob. Dep't, 128 F.3d 152 (3d Cir. 1997).
* Tillman v. Lebanon Cnty. Corr. Facility, 221 F.3d 410 (3d Cir. 2000).
* Johnstone v. N. Am. Van Lines, 958 F.2d 363 (3d Cir. 1992).
* Opticians Ass'n of Am. v. Indep. Opticians of Am., 920 F.2d 187 (3d Cir. 1990).
* Little Princess Assocs. v. Passgo, Inc. 922 F.2d 832 (3d Cir. 1990).
* 	Philadelphia Marine Trade Ass'n v. Local 1242, Int'l Longshoremen's Ass'n, 915 F.2d 1561 (3d Cir. 1990).
* White v. Fraternal Ord. of Police, 914 F.2d 49 (4th Cir. 1990).
* S.C. State Ports Auth. v. NLRB, 914 F.2d 49 (4th Cir. 1990).
* Gulf Atl., Inc. v. Gen. Elec. Co., 878 F.2d 1430 (4th Cir. 1989).
* 	Stewart Glass & Mirror, Inc. v. U.S. Auto Glass Disc. Ctrs., Inc., 200 F.3d 307 (5th Cir. 2000).
* Cobb v. Delta Exps., Inc., 186 F.3d 675 (5th Cir. 1999).
* Moore v. U.S. Auto. Ass'n, 800 F.2d 1147 (5th Cir. 1987).
* BAW Mfg. Co. v. Slaks Fifth Ave., Ltd., 547 F.2d 928 (5th Cir. 1977).

* 	U.S. ex rel. Interstate Mech. Contrs., Inc. v. Int'l Fid. Ins. Co., 200 F.3d 456 (6th Cir. 2000).
* Wooddell v. Int'l Bhd. of Elec. Workers, Local 71, 907 F.2d 151 (6th Cir. 1990), rev'd 112
S. Ct. 494 (1991).
* NLRB v. Dist. 29, 921 F.2d 645 (6th Cir. 1990).
* Schoonover v. Black Bros. Co., 914 F.2d 258 (6th Cir. 1990).
* Buchanan v. Apfel, 249 F.3d 485, 2001 FED App. 0138P (6th Cir.).
* Kennedy v. Nat'l Juvenile Det. Ass'n, 187 F.3d 690 (7th Cir. 1999).
* Travis v. Gary Cmty. Mental Health Ctr., 921 F.2d 108 (7th Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 112
S. Ct. 60 (1991).
* A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc. v. Pub. Bldg. Comm'n, 921 F.2d 118 (7th Cir. 1990).
* Trs. of Cent. States Health & Welfare Fund v. Lamberti, 878 F.2d 384 (7th Cir. 1989).
* Hair v. Helena Chem. Co., 915 F.2d 1579 (8th Cir. 1990).
* Mo. Hous. Dev. Comm'n v. Brice, 919 F.2d 1306 (8th Cir. 1990).
* Ark. State Bank Comm'r v. Resolution Trust Corp., 911 F.2d 161 (8th Cir. 1990).
* Crain v. Bd. of Police Comm'rs of the Metro. Police Dep't, 920 F.2d 1402 (8th Cir. 1990).
* 	Am. Prof'l Testing Serv. v. Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Legal & Prof'l Publ'ns, 108 F.3d 1147 (9th Cir. 1997).
* 	Benton Franklin Riverfront Trailway & Bridge Comm. v. Skinner, 914 F.2d 1496 (9th Cir. 1990).
* Ins. Co. of Pa. v. Associated Int'l Ins. Co., 922 F.2d 516 (9th Cir. 1990)
* Morrell Constr. v. Home Ins. Co., 920 F.2d 576 (9th Cir. 1990).
* Olguin v. Inspiration Consol. Copper Co., 740 F.2d 1468 (9th Cir. 1984).
* Dillon v. Fibreboard Corp., 919 F.2d 1488 (10th Cir. 1990).
* Commc'n Workers of Am. v. Southeastern Elec. Coop., 882 F.2d 467 (10th Cir. 1989).
* Haagen-Dazs Co. v. Masterbrand Distribs., 918 F.2d 183 (11th Cir. 1990).
* Tally-Ho, Inc. v. Coast Cmty. Coll. Dist., 889 F.2d 1018 (11th Cir. 1989).
* Nat'l Distrib. Co. v. James B. Beam Distilling Co. 845 F.2d 307 (11th Cir. 1988).
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
* Or. Steel Mills, Inc. v. United States, 862 F.2d 1541 (Fed. Cir. 1988).
District Courts
* Babb v. Cal. Tchrs. Ass'n, 378 F. Supp. 3d 857 (C.D. Cal. 2019).
* Exodus Refugee Immigr., Inc. v. Pence, 165 F. Supp. 3d 718 (S.D. Ind. 2016).
* Engenium Sols., Inc. v. Symphonic Techs., Inc., 924 F. Supp. 2d 757 (S.D. Tex. 2013).
* Capitol Recs., LLC v. ReDigi Inc., 934 F. Supp. 2d 640 (S.D.N.Y. 2013).
* Walker Dig., LLC v. Facebook, Inc., 852 F. Supp. 2d 559 (D. Del. 2012).
* Zurich Am. Ins. Co. v. Watts Regul. Co., 796 F. Supp. 2d 240 (D. Mass. 2011).
* 	Hollander v. Inst. For Research on Women & Gend. At Columbia Univ., No. 08 Civ. 7286 (LAK) (KNF), 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 34942 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 15, 2009).
* Equal Rts. Ctr. v. Archstone Smith Trust, 603 F. Supp. 2d 814 (D. Md. 2009).
* Black Pol. Task Force v. Galvin, 300 F. Supp. 2d 291 (D. Mass. 2004).
* Huangyan Imp. & Exp. Corp. v. Nature's Farm Prods., No. 99 Civ. 9404 (SHS), 2000
U.S. Dist. LEXIS 12335 (S.D.N.Y. Aug. 25, 2000).
* Inv'rs Cap. Corp. v. Brown, 125 F. Supp. 2d 1346 (M.D. Fla. 2000).
* Villar v. Crowley Mar. Corp., 780 F. Supp. 1467 (S.D. Tex. 1992).
* Diaz v. Antilles Conversion & Exp., Inc., 62 F. Supp. 2d 463 (D.P.R. 1999).
* Glen Holly Entm't, Inc. v. Tektronix, Inc., 100 F. Supp. 2d 1073 (C.D. Cal. 1999).
* Standard Reg. Co. v. Cleaver, 934 F. Supp. 2d 640 (S.D.N.Y. 2013)).
* 	Perlman v. Swiss Bank Corp. Comprehensive Disability Prot. Plan, 979 F. Supp. 726 (N.D. Ill. 1997).
* Natural Res. Def. Council v. Fox, 93 F. Supp. 2d 531 (S.D.N.Y. 2000).
* Chatoff v. West Publ'g Co., 948 F. Supp. 176 (E.D.N.Y. 1996).

* Haghighi v. Russian-American Broad. Co., 945 F. Supp. 1233 (D. Minn. 1996).
* 	Silverman v. Major League Baseball Player Rels. Comm., 880 F. Supp. 246 (S.D.N.Y. 1995).
* Upjohn Co. v. Mova Pharm. Corp., 936 F. Supp. 55 (D.P.R. 1996).
* N.J. Tpk. Auth. v. PPG Indus., 16 F. Supp. 2d 460 (D.N.J. 1998).
* 	Trs. of the Univ. of Pa. v. Mayflower Transit, Civil Action No. 97-1111, 1997 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 14577, (E.D. Pa. Sept. 16, 1997).
* Azalea Meats, Inc. v. Muscat, 246 F. Supp. 780 (S.D. Fla. 1965).
* 	Glinsey v. Baltimore & O.R.R., 356 F. Supp. 984 (N.D. Ohio 1973), rev'd, 495 F.2d 565 (6th Cir. 1974).
* Post v. Textron, Inc., 554 F. Supp. 419 (W.D. Mich. 1983).
* Hotchner v. Barrymore, 31 F. Supp. 928 (E.D.N.Y. 1940).
* Lamkin v. Bowen, 721 F. Supp. 263 (D. Colo. 1989).
* Allen v. Hunter, 65 F. Supp. 365 (D. Kan. 1946).
* Navajo Freight Lines v. Bibb, 159 F. Supp. 385 (S.D. Ill. 1958).
* McRae v. Publ'ns Int'l, 985 F. Supp. 1036 (D. Kan. 1997).
* Van Houten v. Ralls, 290 F. Supp. 67 (D. Nev. 1967).
* United States v. Love, 141 F.R.D. 315 (D. Colo. 1992).
Bankruptcy Courts and Bankruptcy Panels
* Weiner v. Perry, Settles & Lawson, Inc., 208 B.R. 69 (B.A.P. 1st Cir. 1997).
Court of Federal Claims
* Ex'r of Estate of Wicker v. United States, 43 Fed. Cl. 172 (1999).
* Express Foods, Inc. v. United States, 229 Ct. Cl. 733 (Cl. Ct. 1981).*
* 	Youngstown Steel Equip. Sales, Inc. v. United States, 20 Cl. Ct. 517 (1990), rev'd, 935 F.2d 281 (Fed. Cir. 1991).


* The parenthetical reference "Cl. Ct." must be included in pre-1982 cites to the Ct. Cl. reporter but is unnecessary in cases cited to the Cl. Ct. reporter.

Tax Court
* Allied Equip. Leasing II v. Comm'r, 97 T.C. 575 (1991).
Military Service Courts of Criminal Appeals
* United States v. Zamberlan, 45 M.J. 491 (C.A.A.F. 1997).
* United States v. Myers, 25 M.J. 573 (A.F.C.M.R. 1987), petition denied, 27 M.J. 20
(C.M.A. 1988).
* United States v. Young, 24 M.J. 626 (A.C.M.R. 1987).

State Case Citations:

In states where a citation variant appears against a different background there is a distinct case citation format used within the jurisdiction by state courts and those submitting memoranda or briefs to them.

* Alabama | Alaska | Arizona | Arkansas
* California | Colorado | Connecticut | Delaware
* District of Columbia | Florida | Georgia | Hawaii
* Idaho | Illinois | Indiana | Iowa
* Kansas | Kentucky | Louisiana | Maine
* Maryland | Massachusetts | Michigan | Minnesota
* Mississippi | Missouri | Montana | Nebraska
* Nevada | New Hampshire | New Jersey | New Mexico
* New York | North Carolina | North Dakota | Ohio
* Oklahoma | Oregon | Pennsylvania | Rhode Island
* South Carolina | South Dakota | Tennessee | Texas
* Utah | Vermont | Virginia | Washington
* West Virginia | Wisconsin | Wyoming

Alabama
* Se. Meats of Pelham, Inc. v. City of Birmingham, 895 So. 2d 909 (Ala. 2004).
* Talton Telecomm. Corp. v. Coleman, 665 So. 2d 914 (Ala. 1995).
* Piersol v. ITT Phillips Drill Div., Inc., 445 So. 2d 559 (Ala. 1989).
* Mims v. Am. Fed'n of Gov't Emps., 531 So. 2d 661 (Ala. 1988).
* Gov't & Civic Emps. Org. Comm. v. Windsor, 262 Ala. 285, 78 So. 2d 646 (1955).*
* Gov't & Civic Emps. Org. Comm. v. Windsor, 78 So. 2d 646 (Ala. 1955).
* 	State Dep't of Pub. Health v. Boackle-Phipps Foods, 594 So. 2d 1234 (Ala. Civ. App. 1991).
* Tracy v. Tracy, 939 So. 2d 48 (Ala. Civ. App. 2006).
* Sanders v. State, 947 So. 2d 432 (Ala. Crim. App. 2006).

* Publication of Alabama Reports and Alabama Appellate Court Reports (Ala. App.) ceased in 1976. In-state references to decisions appearing in those reports should, where possible, include parallel citations to them. Note that Alabama has two intermediate appellate courts, one with civil and one with criminal jurisdiction.


Alaska
* Alaska Far E. Corp. v. Newby, 630 P.2d 533 (Alaska 1981).
* Parks v. State, 731 P.2d 597 (Alaska Ct. App. 1987).
* Parks v. State, 731 P.2d 597 (Alaska App. 1987).*

* In-state references to Alaska Court of Appeals decisions generally use this slightly more economical format. For more examples, see § 7-500.


Arizona
* Tom Reed Gold Mines Co. v. United E. Mining Co., 39 Ariz. 533, 8 P.2d 449 (1932).*
* Tom Reed Gold Mines Co. v. United E. Mining Co., 8 P.2d 449 (Ariz. 1932).
* Spurlock v. Santa Fe Pac. R.R. Co., 143 Ariz. 469, 694 P.2d 299 (Ct. App. 1984).*
* Spurlock v. Santa Fe Pac. R.R. Co., 143 Ariz. 469, 694 P.2d 299 (App. 1984).**
* Spurlock v. Santa Fe Pac. R.R. Co., 694 P.2d 299 (Ariz. Ct. App. 1984).
* 	Johnson Int'l, Inc. v. City of Phoenix, 192 Ariz. 466, 470-71 ¶ 26, 967 P.2d 607, 611-12 (App. 1998).**
* Johnson Int'l, Inc. v. City of Phoenix, 967 P.2d 607, 611-12 (Ariz. Ct. App. 1998).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Arizona Reports should, where possible, include parallel citations to those reports.

** In-state references also generally use this slightly more economical abbreviation of the Court of Appeals. In addition, decisions rendered since January 1, 1998, include paragraph numbers which are generally used, together with rather than instead of page numbers, in in-state pinpoint citations. For more examples, see § 7-500.



Arkansas
* Whiteside v. Russellville Newspapers, Inc., 2009 Ark. 135, 295 S.W.3d 798.*
* Whiteside v. Russellville Newspapers, Inc., 295 S.W.3d 798 (Ark. 2009).
* 	Magnolia Sch. Dist. No. 14 v. Ark. State Bd. of Educ., 303 Ark. 666, 799 S.W.2d 791 (1990).*
* Magnolia Sch. Dist. No. 14 v. Ark. State Bd. of Educ., 799 S.W.2d 791 (Ark. 1990).
* 	All City Glass & Mirror v. McGraw Hill Info. Sys. Co., 295 Ark. 520, 750 S.W.2d 395 (1988).*
* All City Glass & Mirror v. McGraw Hill Info. Sys. Co., 750 S.W.2d 395 (Ark. 1988).
* Bronakowski v. Lindhurst, 2009 Ark. App. 513, 324 S.W.3d 719. *
* Bronakowski v. Lindhurst, 324 S.W.3d 719 (Ark. 1990).
* Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co. v. Dyer, 6 Ark. App. 211, 639 S.W.2d 536 (1982).*
* Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co. v. Dyer, 639 S.W.2d 536 (Ark. Ct. App. 1982).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Arkansas Reports should, where possible, include parallel citations to those reports. Citations to decisions from 2009 on should instead use the state's medium-neutral citation system. That system employs individual opinion pagination rather than paragraph numbers for in-state pinpoint citation, with a comma and “at” separating the cited page from the opinion number.


California
* 	Green v. State of California, 42 Cal. 4th 254, 260, 165 P.3d 118, 121, 64 Cal. Rptr. 3d 390, 393 (2007).*
* (Green v. State of California (2007) 42 Cal.4th 254, 260.)**
* Green v. State of California, 165 P.3d 118, 121 (Cal. 2007).
* 	Coal. of Concerned Cmtys., Inc. v. City of Los Angeles, 34 Cal. 4th 733, 101 P.3d 563, 21 Cal. Rptr. 3d 676 (2005).*
* Coal. of Concerned Cmtys., Inc. v. City of Los Angeles, 101 P.3d 563 (Cal. 2005).
* 	Cal. Educ. Facilities Auth. v. Priest, 12 Cal. 3d 593, 526 P.2d 513, 116 Cal. Rptr. 361 (1974).*
* Cal. Educ. Facilities Auth. v. Priest, 526 P.2d 513 (Cal. 1974).
* 	Sakotas v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd., 80 Cal. App. 4th 262, 95 Cal. Rptr. 2d 153 (2000).*
* Sakotas v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd., 95 Cal. Rptr. 2d 153 (Ct. App. 2000).
* 	Salinas v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 5 Cal. App. 4th 1, 6 Cal. Rptr. 2d 446 (1992).*
* Salinas v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 6 Cal. Rptr. 2d 446 (Ct. App. 1992).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in California Reports or California Appellate Reports should, where possible, include parallel citations to them.

** In addition, they may but need not use the distinctive format employed by the California courts and set out in the California Style Manual. For examples, see § 7-500.



Colorado
* People v. Padilla-Lopez, 2012 CO 49, ¶ 18, 279 P.3d 651.*
* People v. Padilla-Lopez, 279 P.3d 651, 656 (Colo. 2012).
* 	City of Greeley v. Poudre Valley Rural Elec., 744 P.2d 739 (Colo. 1987), appeal dismissed, 485 U.S. 949 (1988).
* B.K. Sweeney Elec. Co. v. Poston, 110 Colo. 139, 132 P.2d 443 (1942).*
* B.K. Sweeney Elec. Co. v. Poston, 132 P.2d 443 (Colo. 1942).
* Vaccaro v. Am. Family Ins. Group, 2012 COA 9, ¶ 18, 275 P.3d 750.*
* Vaccaro v. Am. Family Ins. Group, 132 P.3d 750 (Colo. Ct. App. 2012).
* People v. Petschow, 119 P.3d 495 (Colo. App. 2004).*
* People v. Petschow, 119 P.3d 495 (Colo. Ct. App. 2004).
* Serv. Merch. Co. v. Schwartzberg, 971 P.2d 654 (Colo. Ct. App. 1997).
* Vessels Oil & Gas Co. v. Coastal Ref. & Mktg., Inc., 764 P.2d 391 (Colo. Ct. App. 1988).

* Publication of Colorado Reports ceased in 1980. In-state references to decisions appearing in those reports should, where possible, include parallel citations to them. In addition, in-state references to decisions of the Court of Appeals can follow the practice of the Colorado courts and use a slightly more economic abbreviation of the court. For more examples, see § 7-500. Citations to decisions from 2012 on can use the state's medium- neutral citation system instead of citations to the regional reporter; they need not include a parallel citation.


Connecticut
* Tovish v. Gerber Elecs., 212 Conn. 814, 565 A.2d 538 (1989).*
* Tovish v. Gerber Elecs., 565 A.2d 538 (Conn. 1989).
* Hansen v. Ohio Cas. Ins. Co., 239 Conn. 549, 687 A.2d 1262 (1995).*
* Hansen v. Ohio Cas. Ins. Co., 687 A.2d 1262 (Conn. 1995).
* Vogel v. Maimonides Acad. of W. Conn., Inc., 58 Conn. App. 624, 754 A.2d 824 (2000).*
* Vogel v. Maimonides Acad. of W. Conn., Inc., 754 A.2d 824 (Conn. App. Ct. 2000).
* Chaleunphone v. Slater Rd. Assocs., 26 Conn. App. 946, 602 A.2d 47 (1992).*
* Chaleunphone v. Slater Rd. Assocs., 602 A.2d 47 (Conn. App. Ct. 1992).
* 	Bishop's Corner Assocs. Ltd. P'shp v. Serv. Merch. Co., 45 Conn. Supp. 443, 720 A.2d 531 (1997).*
* 	Bishop's Corner Assocs. Ltd. P'shp v. Serv. Merch. Co., 720 A.2d 531 (Conn. Super. Ct. 1997).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Connecticut Reports, Connecticut Appellate Reports, or Connecticut Supplement should, where possible, include citations to them.
Indeed, state rules specify that citations in the argument portion of a brief should be to the official reports alone.


Delaware
* Reagan v. Del. Ass'n of Prof'l Eng'rs, 577 A.2d 755 (Del. 1990).
* In re Polaroid Corp. S'holders Litig., 560 A.2d 491 (Del. 1989).
* Istituto Bancario Italiano SpA v. Hunter Eng'g Co., 449 A.2d 210 (Del. 1981).
* 	Bank of Am. Nat'l Trust & Sav. Assoc. v. GAC Props. Credit, Inc., 389 A.2d 1304 (Del. Ch. 1978).


District of Columbia
* Croom v. United States, 546 A.2d 1006 (D.C. 1988).
* Lennon v. United States Theatre Corp., 287 U.S. App. D.C. 202, 920 F.2d 996 (1990).*
* Lennon v. United States Theatre Corp., 920 F.2d 996 (D.C. Cir. 1990).

* References to decisions of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit in briefs submitted to D.C. courts should include citations to the United States Court of Appeals Reports in addition to the Federal Reporter.


Florida
* Dr. Diabetic Supply, Inc. v. POAP Corp., Inc., 53 So. 3d 1021 (Fla. 2011).
* Swofford v. Richards Enters., Inc., 515 So. 2d 231 (Fla. 1987).
* City of N. Miami v. Fla. Defenders of the Env't, 481 So. 2d 1196 (Fla. 1985).
* Gore v. Space Sci. Servs., 697 So. 2d 841 (Fla. 1st DCA 1997).*
* Gore v. Space Sci. Servs., 697 So. 2d 841 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1997).
* 	S.O.S. Reprod. Sys. of Tampa, Inc. v. Saxon Bus. Prods., Inc., 320 So. 2d 500 (Fla. 3d DCA 1975).*
* 	S.O.S. Reprod. Sys. of Tampa, Inc. v. Saxon Bus. Prods., Inc., 320 So. 2d 500 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1975).

* In-state references to decisions of the District Court of Appeal should indicate the district, and in similar fashion references to the Circuit Court should indicate the circuit and references to the County Court, the county. The format for doing so is set out in the Florida rules. For those rules and more examples, see § 7-500.


Georgia
* Retention Alts., Ltd. v. Hayward, 285 Ga. 437, 678 S.E.2d 877 (2009).*
* Retention Alts., Ltd. v. Hayward, 678 S.E.2d 877 (Ga. 2009).
* Dalcor Mgmt., Inc. v. Sewer Rooter, Inc., 423 S.E.2d 419 (Ga. Ct. App. 1992).
* S & S Mach. Co. v. Intermar S.S. Corp., 189 Ga. App. 13, 374 S.E.2d 767 (1988).*
* S & S Mach. Co. v. Intermar S.S. Corp., 374 S.E.2d 767 (Ga. Ct. App. 1988).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Georgia Reports or Georgia Appeals Reports should, where possible, include citations to them.


Hawaii
* Pac. Concrete Fed. Credit Union v. Kauanoe, 62 Haw. 334, 614 P.2d 936 (1980).*
* Pac. Concrete Fed. Credit Union v. Kauanoe, 614 P.2d 936 (Haw. 1980).
* Krohnert v. Yacht Sys. Haw., Inc., 4 Haw. App. 190, 664 P.2d 738 (1983).*
* Krohnert v. Yacht Sys. Haw., Inc., 664 P.2d 738 (Haw. Ct. App. 1983).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Hawaii Reports or Hawaii Appellate Reports should, where possible, include citations to them. Hawaii Appellate Reports ended in 1994. Since 1994, Hawaii Reports have included decisions of both the Hawaii Supreme Court and the Hawaii Intermediate Court of Appeals.


Idaho
* 	Kootenai Envtl. All., Inc. v. Panhandle Yacht Club, Inc., 105 Idaho 622, 671 P.2d 1085 (1983).*
* Kootenai Envtl. All., Inc. v. Panhandle Yacht Club, Inc., 671 P.2d 1085 (Idaho 1983).
* McCorkle v. Nw. Mut. Life Ins. Co., 112 P.3d 838 (Idaho Ct. App. 2005).
* 	Jones v. Mountain States Tel. & Tel. Co., 105 Idaho 520, 620 P.2d 1305 (Ct. App. 1983).*
* Jones v. Mountain States Tel. & Tel. Co., 620 P.2d 1305 (Idaho Ct. App. 1983).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Idaho Reports should, where possible, include citations to them.


Illinois
* Snyder v. Heidelberger, 2011 IL 111052, 953 N.E.2d 415.*
* Snyder v. Heidelberger, 953 N.E. 415 (Ill. 2011).
* Linden Bros. v. Practical Elec. & Eng'g Publ'g Co., 309 Ill. 132, 140 N.E. 874 (1923).*
* Linden Bros. v. Practical Elec. & Eng'g Publ'g Co., 140 N.E. 874 (Ill. 1923).
* People v. Hansen, 2011 IL App (2d) 081226, 952 N.E.2d 82.*
* People v. Hansen, 952 N.E.2d 82 (Ill. App. Ct. 2011).
* Lewis v. Rutland Twp., 359 Ill. App. 3d 1076, 824 N.E.2d 1213 (2005).*
* Lewis v. Rutland Twp., 824 N.E.2d 1213 (Ill. App. Ct. 2005).
* Jastram v. Lake Villa Sch. Dist. 41, 192 Ill. App. 3d 599, 549 N.E.2d 9 (1989).*
* Jastram v. Lake Villa Sch. Dist. 41, 549 N.E.2d 9 (Ill. App. Ct. 1989).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Illinois Reports or Illinois Appellate Court Reports should, where possible, include citations to them. Citations to decisions from 2011 on should instead use the state's medium-neutral citation system. Illinois court rules allow, but do not require, parallel citations to the North Eastern Reporter.


Indiana
* Slater v. Akron Exch. State Bank, 221 Ind. 497, 49 N.E.2d 344 (1943).*
* Slater v. Akron Exch. State Bank, 49 N.E.2d 344 (Ind. 1943).
* Lovko v. Lovko, 179 Ind. App. 1, 384 N.E.2d 166 (1978).*
* Lovko v. Lovko, 384 N.E.2d 166 (Ind. Ct. App. 1978).
* Arth Main St. Drugs, Inc. v. A-1 Beverage Comm'n, 404 N.E.2d 65 (Ind. Ct. App. 1980).

* Publication of Indiana Court of Appeals Reports ceased in 1979; Indiana Reports, in 1981. In-state references to decisions appearing in those reports should, where possible, include parallel citations to them.



Iowa
* Iowa Fed'n of Labor v. Iowa Dep't of Job Serv., 427 N.W.2d 443 (Iowa 1988).
* City of Sioux City v. Bd. of Trs. of Fire Ret. Sys., 348 N.W.2d 643 (Iowa Ct. App. 1984).
* Bates v. Quality Ready-Mix Co., 261 Iowa 696, 154 N.W.2d 852 (1967).*
* Bates v. Quality Ready-Mix Co., 154 N.W.2d 852 (Iowa 1967).

* Publication of Iowa Reports ceased in 1968. In-state references to decisions appearing in those reports should, where possible, include parallel citations to them.


Kansas
* Farmers Ins. Co. v. Sw. Bell Tel. Co., 279 Kan. 976, 113 P.3d 258 (2005).*
* Farmers Ins. Co. v. Sw. Bell Tel. Co., 113 P.3d 258 (Kan. 2005).
* Cent. Fin. Co. v. Stevens, 221 Kan. 1, 558 P.2d 122 (1976).*
* Cent. Fin. Co. v. Stevens, 558 P.2d 122 (Kan. 1976).
* De Graeve v. Sw. Bell Tel. Co., 9 Kan. App. 2d 753, 687 P.2d 1380 (1984).*
* De Graeve v. Sw. Bell Tel. Co., 687 P.2d 1380 (Kan. Ct. App. 1984).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Kansas Reports or Kansas Court of Appeals Reports should, where possible, include citations to them.


Kentucky
* Dep't of Revenue v. Isaac W. Bernheim Found.,Inc., 505 S.W.2d 762 (Ky. 1974).
* Cement Transp., Inc. v. Hodges, 505 S.W.2d 32 (Ky. App. 1974).*
* Cement Transp., Inc. v. Hodges, 505 S.W.2d 32 (Ky. Ct. App. 1974).
* Louisville Title Mortg. Co. v. Commonwealth, 299 Ky. 224, 184 S.W.2d 963 (1944).
* Louisville Title Mortg. Co. v. Commonwealth, 184 S.W.2d 963 (Ky. Ct. App. 1944).

* In-state references should indicate the deciding court using this slightly different format set out in Kentucky rules.



Louisiana
* State v. Smith, 98-1417, p. 15 (La. 6/29/01); 793 So. 2d 1199, 1208.*
* State v. Smith, 793 So. 2d 1199, 1208 (La. 2001).
* Charles v. St. Mary Ironworks, Inc., 96-2923 (La. 3/14/97); 689 So. 2d 1380.*
* Charles v. St. Mary Ironworks, Inc., 689 So. 2d 1380 (La. 1997).
* Wilson v. Grosjean Contractors, Inc., 97-0012 (La. 3/14/97); 690 So. 2d 25.*
* Wilson v. Grosjean Contractors, Inc., 690 So. 2d 25 (La. 1997).
* Mellon Fin. Servs. Corp. #7 v. Alexander, 551 So. 2d 632 (La. 1989).
* 	First Metro. Bank v. Plaia, 386 So. 2d 94 (La. 1980), on remand, 389 So. 2d 870 (La. Ct. App. 1980).
* Economy Carpets Mfrs. v. Better Bus. Bureau, Inc., 341 So. 2d 555 (La. 1977).
* Siemssen v. Manpower Temp. Servs., 95-80 (La.App. 5 Cir, 5/30/95); 656 So. 2d 1115.*
* Siemssen v. Manpower Temp. Servs., 656 So. 2d 1115 (La. Ct. App. 1995).
* Roberts v. La. State Univ. Med. Ctr., 554 So. 2d 230 (La. Ct. App. 1989).

* In-state references to decisions from 1994 forward should include a medium-neutral citation which, under Lousiana rules, consists of the docket number and date in the format shown here.


Maine
* Beale v. Sec'y of State, 1997 ME 82, ¶ 7, 693 A.2d 336.*
* Beale v. Sec'y of State, 693 A.2d 336, 339 (Me. 1997).
* Larochelle v. Hodsdon, 1997 ME 53, ¶ 13, 690 A.2d 986.*
* Larochelle v. Hodsdon, 690 A.2d 986, 989 (Me. 1997).
* Bazinet v. Concord Gen. Mut. Ins. Co., 513 A.2d 279 (Me. 1986).

* In-state references to decisions from 1997 forward should include a medium-neutral citation which, under Maine rules, consists of the year, the state postal abbreviation, and a sequential decision number in the format shown here. Pinpoint cites should be to the paragraph numbers assigned by the court.


Maryland
* 	Three Garden Vill. Ltd. P'ship v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co., 318 Md. 98, 567 A.2d 85 (1989).*
* 	Three Garden Vill. Ltd. P'ship v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co., 567 A.2d 85 (Md. 1989).
* Mclean Cont. Co. v. Md. Transp. Auth., 70 Md. App. 514, 521 A.2d 1251.*
* 	Mclean Cont. Co. v. Md. Transp. Auth., 521 A.2d 1251 (Md. Ct. Spec. App.), cert. denied, 527 A.2d 51 (Md. 1987).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Maryland Reports or Maryland Appellate Reports should, where possible, include citations to them. Note that the Maryland Court of Appeals is the state's highest court and the Maryland Court of Special Appeals, an intermediate appellate court.



Massachusetts
* WBZ-TV4 v. Exec. Office of Labor, 414 Mass. 767, 610 N.E.2d 923 (1993).*
* WBZ-TV4 v. Exec. Office of Labor, 610 N.E.2d 923 (Mass. 1993).
* McKenzie v. Brigham & Women's Hosp., 405 Mass. 432, 541 N.E.2d 325 (1989).*
* McKenzie v. Brigham & Women's Hosp., 541 N.E.2d 325 (Mass. 1989).
* Ne. Avionics, Inc. v. City of Westfield, 63 Mass. App. Ct. 509, 827 N.E.2d 721 (2005).*
* Ne. Avionics, Inc. v. City of Westfield, 827 N.E.2d 721 (Mass. App. Ct. 2005).
* 	Apahouser Lock & Sec. Corp. v. Carvelli, 25 Mass. App. Ct. 1117, 522 N.E.2d 1016 (1988).*
* Apahouser Lock & Sec. Corp. v. Carvelli, 522 N.E.2d 1016 (Mass. App. Ct. 1988).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Massachusetts Reports or Massachusetts Appeals Court Reports should, where possible, include citations to them.


Michigan
* Booker v Med Pers Pool, 456 Mich 913; 572 NW2d 656 (1997).*
* Booker v. Med. Pers. Pool, 572 N.W.2d 656 (Mich. 1997).
* Renshaw v Coldwater Hous Comm'n, 381 Mich 590; 165 NW2d 5 (1969).*
* Renshaw v. Coldwater Hous. Comm'n, 165 N.W.2d 5 (Mich. 1969).
* Nat'l Ctr for Mfg Scis v City of Ann Arbor, 221 Mich App 541; 563 NW2d 65 (1997).*
* Nat'l Ctr. for Mfg. Scis. v. City of Ann Arbor, 563 N.W.2d 65 (Mich. Ct. App. 1997).
* 	Gordon Food Serv, Inc v Grand Rapids Material Handling Co, 183 Mich App 241; 454 NW2d 137 (1989).*
* 	Gordon Food Serv., Inc. v. Grand Rapids Material Handling Co., 454 N.W.2d 137 (Mich. Ct. App. 1989).
* 	Med. Soc'y of NJ v NJ Dep't of Law & Pub Safety, 183 Mich App 241; 454 NW2d 137 (1989).*
* 	Med. Soc'y of N.J. v. N.J. Dep't of Law & Pub. Safety, 454 N.W.2d 137 (Mich. Ct. App. 1989).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Michigan Reports or Michigan Appeals Reports should, where possible, include citations to them, in parallel with citations to the regional reporter. The format shown above (including the absence of periods called for by The Bluebook and a semi-colon separating the parallel citations) is that set out in an appellate opinion manual. Deviating in numerous other respects from general citation norms for both Michigan and out-of-state authority, it is used in decisions of the state’s own courts and submissions to them. For a reference to the manual, see § 7-500.


Minnesota
* Minnegasco, Inc. v. Cnty. of Carver, 447 N.W.2d 878 (Minn. 1989).
* Great W. Cas. Co. v. Christenson, 450 N.W.2d 153 (Minn. App. 1990).*
* Great W. Cas. Co. v. Christenson, 450 N.W.2d 153 (Minn. Ct. App. 1990).

* In-state references to Minn. Court of Appeals decisions employ this shorter abbreviation, while references to decisions of comparable courts in other jurisdictions include the “Ct.”



Mississippi
* 	Blackledge v. Omega Ins. Co., 98-CA-00380-SCT (¶ 7), 740 So. 2d 295 (Miss. 1998) (en banc).*
* Blackledge v. Omega Ins. Co., 740 So. 2d 295, 299 (Miss. 1998) (en banc).
* ABC Mfg. Corp. v. Doyle, 97-CT-01376-SCT (¶ 14), 749 So. 2d 43 (Miss. 1997) (en
banc).*
* ABC Mfg. Corp. v. Doyle, 749 So. 2d 43, 46 (Miss. 1997) (en banc).
* Hartford Accident & Indem. Co. v. Foster, 528 So. 2d 255 (Miss. 1988).

* In-state references to decisions from July 1, 1997, forward should include a medium- neutral citation which, under Mississippi rules, consists of the clerk-assigned case number in the format shown here. Pinpoint cites should be to the paragraph numbers assigned by the court.


Missouri
* St. Louis v. G. H. Wright Cont. Co., 202 Mo. 451, 101 S.W. 6 (1907).*
* St. Louis v. G. H. Wright Cont. Co., 101 S.W. 6 (Mo. 1907).
* Ex rel. Dir. of Revenue, Mo. v. McKenzie, 936 S.W.2d 590 (Mo. App. 1996).*
* Ex rel. Dir. of Revenue, Mo. v. McKenzie, 936 S.W.2d 590 (Mo. Ct. App. 1996).
* Imperial Util. Corp. v. Cytron, 673 S.W.2d 858 (Mo. App. 1984).*
* Imperial Util. Corp. v. Cytron, 673 S.W.2d 858 (Mo. Ct. App. 1984).

*In-state references to decisions appearing in Missouri Reports should, where possible include citations to those reports, in parallel with citations to the regional reporter. In addition, in-state references to decisions of the Court of Appeals can follow the practice of the Missouri courts and use a slightly more economic abbreviation of the court.


Montana
* Prescott v. Innovative Res. Grp., 2010 MT 35, ¶ 19, 355 Mont. 220, 225 P.3d 1253.*
* Prescott v. Innovative Res. Grp., 225 P.3d 1253, 1256 (Mont. 2010).
* Johnson v. Mont. Dep't of Labor & Indus., 240 Mont. 288, 783 P.2d 1355 (1989).*
* Johnson v. Mont. Dep't of Labor & Indus., 783 P.2d 1355 (Mont. 1989).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Montana Reports should, where possible, include citations to those reports, in parallel with citations to the regional reporter. In addition, in-state references to decisions from 1998 forward should include a medium- neutral citation which, under Montana rules, consists of the year, the state postal abbreviation, and a sequential decision number in the format shown here. Pinpoint cites should be to the paragraph numbers assigned by the court.



Nebraska
* NI Indus., Inc v. Husker-Hawkeye Distrib., Inc., 233 Neb. 808, 448 N.W.2d 157 (1989).*
* NI Indus., Inc v. Husker-Hawkeye Distrib., Inc., 448 N.W.2d 157 (Neb. 1989).
* Johnson v. Johnson, 15 Neb. App. 292, 726 N.W.2d 194 (2006).*
* Johnson v. Johnson, 726 N.W.2d 194 (Neb. Ct. App. 2006).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Nebraska Reports or Nebraska Court of Appeals Reports should, where possible, include citations to those reports. Current volumes of both reports are totally electronic, published in the Nebraska Appellate Courts Online Library.


Nevada
* Brisbin v. State Indus. Ins. Sys., 105 Nev. 1024, 810 P.2d 318 (1989).*
* Brisbin v. State Indus. Ins. Sys., 810 P.2d 318 (Nev. 1989).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Nevada Reports should, where possible, include citations to those reports.


New Hampshire
* 	Psychiatric Inst. of Am. v. Mediplex, Inc., 130 N.H. 125, 536 A.2d 169 (1987), later proceeding, 132 N.H. 177, 564 A.2d 818 (1989).*
* 	Psychiatric Inst. of Am. v. Mediplex, Inc., 536 A.2d 169 (N.H. 1987), later proceeding, 564 A.2d 818 (N.H. 1989).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in New Hampshire Reports should, where possible, include citations to those reports.


New Jersey
* Dep't of Envtl. Prot. v. Lennan, 147 N.J. 579, 688 A.2d 1055 (1997).*
* Dep't of Envtl. Prot. v. Lennan, 688 A.2d 1055 (N.J. 1997).
* 	Essex Cnty. Welfare Bd. v. Dep't of Insts. & Agencies, 75 N.J. 232, 381 A.2d 349 (1978).*
* Essex Cnty. Welfare Bd. v. Dep't of Insts. & Agencies, 381 A.2d 349 (N.J. 1978).
* Diehl v. Diehl, 389 N.J. Super. 443, 913 A.2d 803 (App. Div. 2006).*
* Diehl v. Diehl, 913 A.2d 803 (N.J. Super. Ct. App. Div. 2006).
* Davis v. City of Plainfield, 389 N.J. Super. 424, 913 A.2d 166 (Ch. Div. 2006).*
* Davis v. City of Plainfield, 913 A.2d 166 (N.J. Super. Ct. Ch. Div. 2006).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in New Jersey Reports or New Jersey Superior Court Reports should, where possible, include citations to those reports. With Superior Court decisions, the division of the court should be indicated: App. Div., Ch. Div. or Law Div.



New Mexico
* Coates v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 1999-NMSC-013, 127 N.M. 47.*
* Coates v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 976 P.2d 999 (N.M. 1999).
* Golden Oil Co. v. Chace Oil Co., 2000-NMCA-005, ¶ 16, 128 N.M. 526.*
* Golden Oil Co. v. Chace Oil Co., 994 P.2d 772, 776 (N.M. Ct. App. 2000).
* Buckingham v. Health S. Rehab. Hosp., 1997-NMCA-127, 124 N.M. 419.*
* Buckingham v. Health S. Rehab. Hosp., 952 P.2d 20 (N.M. Ct. App. 1997).
* Gallegos v. Yeargin W. Constructors, 1986-NMCA-087, 104 N.M. 623.*
* Gallegos v. Yeargin W. Constructors, 725 P.2d 599 (N.M. Ct. App. 1986).

* In-state references to a New Mexico appellate decision must use its medium-neutral citation which, under New Mexico rules, consists of the year, a court identifier, and a sequential decision number in the format shown here. Pinpoint cites should employ paragraph numbers. This citation scheme was applied prospectively to decisions beginning in 1996. In 2013 its retrospective application was completed. The system now applies to all published New Mexico decisions back to 1852. Decisions pre-dating the cessation of publication of the New Mexico Reports (with volume 150 in 2012) should also be cited to them.


New York
* 	Anderson v. Rehab. Programs Found., 90 N.Y.2d 810, 688 N.E.2d 1381, 666 N.Y.S.2d 99 (1997).*
* Anderson v. Rehab. Programs Found., 688 N.E.2d 1381 (N.Y. 1997).
* Berkowitz v. Chavo Int'l Inc., 74 N.Y.2d 893, 547 N.E.2d 105, 547 N.Y.S.2d 850 (1989).*
* Berkowitz v. Chavo Int'l Inc., 547 N.E.2d 105 (N.Y. 1989).
* 	M.I.F. Sec. Co. v. R.C. Stamm & Co., 60 N.Y.2d 936, 459 N.E.2d 193, 471 N.Y.S.2d 84 (1983).*
* M.I.F. Sec. Co. v. R.C. Stamm & Co., 459 N.E.2d 193 (N.Y. 1983).
* Medici v. Dalton Sch., Inc., 34 N.Y.2d 735, 313 N.E.2d 789, 357 N.Y.S.2d 496 (1974).*
* Medici v. Dalton Sch., Inc., 313 N.E.2d 789 (N.Y. 1974).
* Schwartz v. Pub. Adm'r, 24 N.Y.2d 65, 246 N.E.2d 725, 298 N.Y.S.2d 955 (1968).*
* Schwartz v. Pub. Adm'r, 246 N.E.2d 725 (N.Y. 1968).
* 	Brown v. N.Y. City Econ. Dev. Corp., 234 A.D.2d 33, 650 N.Y.S.2d 213 (1st Dep't 1996).*
* Brown v. N.Y. City Econ. Dev. Corp., 650 N.Y.S.2d 213 (N.Y. App. Div. 1996).
* Hugo v. A & A Maint. Enter., 269 A.D.2d 357, 702 N.Y.S.2d 387 (2d Dep't 2000).*
* Hugo v. A & A Maint. Enter., 702 N.Y.S.2d 387 (N.Y. App. Div. 2000).
* Laro Maint. Corp. v. Culkin, 267 A.D.2d 431, 700 N.Y.S.2d 490 (2d Dep't 1999).*
* Laro Maint. Corp. v. Culkin, 700 N.Y.S.2d 490 (N.Y. App. Div. 1999).
* 	City of New York v. Park S. Assocs., 146 A.D.2d 537, 538 N.Y.S.2d 441 (1st Dep't 1989).*
* City of New York v. Park S. Assocs., 538 N.Y.S.2d 441 (N.Y. App. Div. 1989).
* IBM v. Universal Transcon. Corp., 191 A.D.2d 536, 595 N.Y.S.2d 106 (2d Dep't 1993).*
* IBM v. Universal Transcon. Corp., 595 N.Y.S.2d 106 (N.Y. App. Div. 1993).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in New York Reports, Appellate Division Reports, or New York Miscellaneous Reports should, where possible, include citations to them. In addition, in-state references to decisions of the Supreme Court Appellate Division should normally indicate the Department.


North Carolina
* Chestnut v. Private Inv. Corp., 32 N.C. 363, 373 S.E.2d 542 (1988).*
* Chestnut v. Private Inv. Corp., 373 S.E.2d 542 (N.C. 1988).
* Nolan v. Forsyth Mem'l Hosp., 124 N.C. App. 670, 478 S.E.2d 676 (1996).*
* Nolan v. Forsyth Mem'l Hosp., 478 S.E.2d 676 (N.C. Ct. App. 1996).
* Joyner v. Town of Weaverville, 94 N.C. App. 588, 380 S.E.2d 536, (1989).*
* Joyner v. Town of Weaverville, 380 S.E.2d 536, (N.C. Ct. App. 1989).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in North Carolina Reports or North Carolina Court of Appeals Reports should, where possible, include citations to them, in parallel with citations to the regional reporter.


North Dakota
* Linderkamp v. Hoffman, 1997 ND 64, ¶ 11, 562 N.W.2d 734.*
* Linderkamp v. Hoffman, 562 N.W.2d 734, 737 (N.D. 1997).
* Cont'l Res., Inc. v. Farrar Oil Co., 1997 ND 31, ¶ 12, 559 N.W.2d 841.*
* Cont'l Res., Inc. v. Farrar Oil Co., 559 N.W.2d 841, 845 (N.D. 1997).
* State v. Roberson, 1998 ND App 15, ¶ 12, 586 N.W.2d 687.*
* State v. Roberson, 586 N.W.2d 687, 690 (N.D. Ct. App. 1998).
* Norden Lab., Inc. v. Rotenberger, 358 N.W.2d 518 (N.D. 1984).
* Dutchuk v. Bd. of Cnty. Comm'rs, 429 N.W.2d 21 (N.D. Ct. App. 1988).

* In-state references to decisions from 1997 forward should include a medium-neutral citation which, under North Dakota rules, consists of the year, a court identifier, and a sequential decision number in the format shown here. Pinpoint cites should be to the paragraph numbers assigned by the court.



Ohio
* 	Office of Disciplinary Counsel v. Shrode, 95 Ohio St. 3d 137, 2002-Ohio-1759, 766 N.E.2d 597, ¶ 8.*
* Office of Disciplinary Counsel v. Shrode, 766 N.E.2d 597 (Ohio 2002).
* Davis v. Columbus State Cmty. Coll. (1997), 78 Ohio St. 3d 1488, 678 N.E.2d 1227.*
* Davis v. Columbus State Cmty. Coll., 678 N.E.2d 1227 (Ohio 1997).
* Metro. Prop. & Liab. Ins. Co. v. Kott (1980), 62 Ohio St. 2d 114, 116, 403 N.E.2d 985.*
* Metro. Prop. & Liab. Ins. Co. v. Kott, 403 N.E.2d 985, 986 (Ohio 1980).
* Reddy v. Reddy, 1st Dist. Hamilton Nos. C-140609, C-140678, 2015-Ohio-3368, ¶ 21.*
* 	Johnston v. Akron Ctr. for Reprod. Health, Inc. (1990), 68 Ohio App. 3d 655, 589 N.E.2d 432, motion overruled, 56 Ohio St. 3d 713, 565 N.E.2d 836.*
* 	Johnston v. Akron Ctr. for Reprod. Health, Inc., 589 N.E.2d 432 (Ohio Ct. App.), motion overruled, 565 N.E.2d 836 (Ohio 1990).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Ohio State Reports, Ohio Appellate Reports, or Ohio Miscellaneous Reports should, where possible, include citations to them. Ohio court practice is to place the year immediately following the parties' names rather than at the end of the citation. In addition, in-state references to decisions from 2002 forward should include a medium-neutral citation which, under Ohio rules, consists of the year, "Ohio", and a sequential decision number in the format shown in the first example. Pinpoint cites can be to the paragraph numbers assigned by the court reporter or, with pre-2002 decisions, to the official report alone. As of July 1, 2012 the case database at Ohio Supreme Court website was designated as the official reports for decisions of the state’s courts of appeals and court of claims. In-state citations to contemporary courts of appeals decisions commonly include the district, county, and docket number in the format shown.


Oklahoma
* Oliver v. Farmers Ins. of Cos., 1997 OK 71, ¶ 6, 941 P.2d 985.*
* Oliver v. Farmers Ins. of Cos., 941 P.2d 985, 987 (Okla. 1997).
* ABC Coating Co. v. J. Harris & Sons Ltd., 747 P.2d 271 (Okla. 1987).
* Peacock v. State, 2002 OK CR 21, ¶ 5, 46 P.3d 713.*
* Peacock v. State, 46 P.3d 713, 714 (Okla. Crim. App. 2002).
* State ex rel. Gibson v. 1997 Dodge, 2001 OK CIV APP 130, ¶ 15, 35 P.3d 1009.*
* State ex rel. Gibson v. 1997 Dodge, 35 P.3d 1009, 1013 (Okla. Civ. App. 2001).

* In-state references to decisions from 1997 forward should include a medium-neutral citation which, under Oklahoma rules, consists of the year, a court identifier, and a sequential decision number in the format shown here. Pinpoint cites should be to the paragraph numbers assigned by the court. Note that the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals rather than the Oklahoma Supreme Court is the state's court of last resort in criminal matters.



Oregon
* Necanicum Inv. Co. v. Emp’t Dep’t, 345 Or 518, 200 P3d 129 (2008).*
* Necanicum Inv. Co. v. Emp’t Dep’t, 345 P.3d 200 (Or. 2009).
* 	Rocky B. Fisheries, Inc. v. N. Bend Fabrication & Mach., Inc., 297 Or 82, 679 P2d 1367 (1984).*
* Rocky B. Fisheries, Inc. v. N. Bend Fabrication & Mach., Inc., 679 P.2d 1367 (Or. 1984).
* Schilling v. SAIF Corp., 109 Or App 494, 820 P2d 471 (1991).*
* Schilling v. SAIF Corp., 820 P.2d 471 (Or. Ct. App. 1991).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Oregon Reports or Oregon Reports, Court of Appeals, should, where possible, include citations to them, abbreviated as illustrated above (omitting the periods called for by The Bluebook).


Pennsylvania
* Blakeney v. Green's Rest., 550 Pa. 689, 704 A.2d 1380 (1997).*
* Blakeney v. Green's Rest., 704 A.2d 1380 (Pa. 1997).
* Beckwith Mach. Co. v. Commonwealth, 485 Pa. 337, 402 A.2d 661 (1979).*
* Beckwith Mach. Co. v. Commonwealth, 402 A.2d 661 (Pa. 1979).
* 	Bullocks v. Aliquippa & S. R.R. Co., 364 Pa. Super. 642, 525 A.2d 812, appeal denied, 516 Pa. 621, 532 A.2d 19 (1987).*
* 	Bullocks v. Aliquippa & S. R.R. Co., 525 A.2d 812 (Pa. Super. Ct.), appeal denied, 532 A.2d 19 (Pa. 1987).
* Wells v. Cendant Mobility Fin. Corp., 2006 PA Super 363, 913 A.2d 929, 933.*
* Wells v. Cendant Mobility Fin. Corp., 913 A.2d 929, 933 (Pa. Super. Ct. 2006).
* Weaver v. Pa. Bd. of Prob. & Parole, 688 A.2d 766 (Pa. Commw. Ct. 1997).
* Keystone Outdoor Advert. v. Commonwealth, 687 A.2d 47 (Pa. Commw. Ct. 1996).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Pennsylvania State Reports, Pennsylvania Superior Court Reports, or Pennsylvania Commonwealth Reports should, where possible, include citations to them, in parallel with citations to the regional reporter. The Pennsylvania Superior Court Reports ceased publication in 1998; the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Reports, in 1994. In addition, in-state references to decisions of the Superior Court should include a medium-neutral citation which consists of the year, a court identifier, and a sequential decision number in the format shown here.


Rhode Island
* Brown & Sharp Mfg. Co. v. King, 404 A.2d 857 (R.I. 1979).


South Carolina
* Myrtle Beach Seafood Mkt., Inc. v. Rikard, 266 S.C. 52, 221 S.E.2d 399 (S.C. 1976).*
* Myrtle Beach Seafood Mkt., Inc. v. Rikard, 221 S.E.2d 399 (S.C. 1976).
* 	Carolina Chems., Inc. v. S.C. Dep't of Health & Envtl. Control, 290 S.C. 498, 351 S.E.2d 575 (Ct. App. 1986).*
* 	Carolina Chems., Inc. v. S.C. Dep't of Health & Envtl. Control, 351 S.E.2d 575 (S.C. Ct. App. 1986).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in South Carolina Reports should, where possible, include citations to those reports, in parallel with citations to the regional reporter.


South Dakota
* Jansen v. Lemmon Fed. Credit Union, 1997 S.D. 44, ¶ 10, 562 N.W.2d 122, 125.*
* Jansen v. Lemmon Fed. Credit Union, 562 N.W.2d 122, 125 (S.D. 1997).
* Bohlmann v. Lindquist, 1997 S.D. 42, ¶ 13, 562 N.W.2d 578, 581.*
* Bohlmann v. Lindquist, 562 N.W.2d 578, 581 (S.D. 1997).
* Driscoll v. Great Plains Mktg. Co., 322 N.W.2d 478 (S.D. 1982).

* In-state references to decisions from 1996 forward should include a medium-neutral citation which, under current South Dakota rules, consists of the year, the state abbreviation (S.D.), and a sequential decision number in the format shown here. Pinpoint cites should include the paragraph numbers assigned by the court.


Tennessee
* Reagan v. Tenn. Mun. League, 751 S.W.2d 842 (Tenn. 1988).
* Franklin Distrib. Co. v. Crush Int'l (U.S.A.), Inc., 726 S.W.2d 926 (Tenn. Ct. App. 1986).

Texas
* Mariner Fin. Grp., Inc. v. Bossley, 79 S.W.3d 30 (Tex. 2002).
* Castaldo v. State, 78 S.W.3d 345 (Tex. Crim. App. 2002).
* 	Birnbaum v. All. of Am. Insurers, 994 S.W.2d 766 (Tex. App.—Austin 1999, pet. denied).*
* Birnbaum v. All. of Am. Insurers, 994 S.W.2d 766 (Tex. App. 1999).
* 	Scoggins v. Best Indus. Unif. Supply Co., 899 S.W.2d 276 (Tex. App.—Houston [14th Dist.] 1995, no writ).*
* Scoggins v. Best Indus. Unif. Supply Co., 899 S.W.2d 276 (Tex. App. 1995).
* 	Walls Reg'l Hosp. v. Altaras, 903 S.W.2d 36 (Tex. App.—Waco 1994, orig. proceeding).*
* Walls Reg'l Hosp. v. Altaras, 903 S.W.2d 36 (Tex. App. 1994).

* In-state references to decisions of the Texas Courts of Appeals should include a designation of the court plus an indication of any subsequent proceeding in the format shown.



Utah
* Utah Farm Bureau Ins. Co. v. Crook, 1999 UT 47, ¶ 6, 980 P.2d 685.*
* Utah Farm Bureau Ins. Co. v. Crook, 980 P.2d 685, 686 (Utah 1999).
* Fitz v. Synthes, 1999 UT 103, ¶ 11, 990 P.2d 391.*
* Fitz v. Synthes, 990 P.2d 391, 393(Utah 1999).
* Arrow Indus., Inc. v. Zions First Nat'l Bank, 767 P.2d 935 (Utah 1988).
* State v. Olola, 2014 UT App 263, ¶ 9, 339 P.3d 164.*
* State v. Olola, 339 P.3d 164 (Utah Ct. App. 2014).

* In-state references to decisions from 1999 forward should include a medium-neutral citation which, under Utah rules, consists of the year, the state postal abbreviation, and a sequential decision number in the format shown here. Pinpoint cites should be to the paragraph numbers assigned by the court.


Vermont
* Serecky v. Nat'l Grange Mut. Ins., 2004 VT 63, ¶ 15, 177 Vt. 58, 857 A.2d 775.*
* Serecky v. Nat'l Grange Mut. Ins., 857 A.2d 775, 781 (Vt. 2005).
* Ins. Co. of N. Am. v. Miller's Mut. Ins. Ass'n, 139 Vt. 255, 427 A.2d 354 (1981).*
* Ins. Co. of N. Am. v. Miller's Mut. Ins. Ass'n, 427 A.2d 354 (Vt. 1981).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Vermont Reports should, where possible, include citations to those reports, in parallel with citations to the regional reporter. In addition in-state references to decisions from 2003 forward should include a medium- neutral citation which, under Vermont rules, consists of the year, the state postal abbreviation, and a sequential decision number in the format shown here. Pinpoint cites should include the paragraph numbers assigned by the court. Vermont rules also call for the use of medium-neutral cites for cases from other jurisdictions that have adopted them.


Virginia
* Government Emps. Ins. Co. v. Moore, 266 Va. 155, 580 S.E.2d 823 (2003).*
* Government Emps. Ins. Co. v. Moore, N.A., 580 S.E.2d 823 (Va. 2003).
* Khanna v. Dominion Bank of N. Va., N.A., 237 Va. 242, 377 S.E.2d 378 (1989).*
* Khanna v. Dominion Bank of N. Va., N.A., 377 S.E.2d 378 (Va. 1989).
* First Fed. Sav. & Loan v. Gryder, 909 Va. App. 60, 383 S.E.2d 755 (1989).*
* First Fed. Sav. & Loan v. Gryder, 383 S.E.2d 755 (Va. Ct. App. 1989).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Virginia Reports or Virginia Court of Appeals Reports should, where possible, include citations to them, in parallel with citations to the regional reporter.



Washington
* State v. Heddrick, 166 Wn.2d 898, ¶ 20, 215 P.3d 201 (2009).*
* State v. Heddrick, 215 P.3d 201, 206 (2009).
* Shorewood W. Condo. Ass'n v. Sadri, 140 Wn.2d 47, 992 P.2d 1008 (2000).*
* Shorewood W. Condo. Ass'n v. Sadri, 992 P.2d 1008 (Wash. 2000).
* 	First United Methodist Church of Seattle v. Hearing Exam'r for Seattle Landmarks Pres. Bd., 129 Wn.2d 238, 916 P.2d 374 (1996).*
* 	First United Methodist Church of Seattle v. Hearing Exam'r for Seattle Landmarks Pres. Bd., 916 P.2d 374 (Wash. 1996).
* 	People's Org. for Wash. Energy Res. v. Utilities & Transp. Comm'n, 104 Wn.2d 798, 711 P.2d 319 (1985).*
* 	People's Org. for Wash. Energy Res. v. Utilities & Transp. Comm'n, 711 P.2d 319 (Wash. 1985).
* Cameron v. Murray , 151 Wn. App. 646, ¶ 14, 214 P.3d 150 (2009).*
* Cameron v. Murray, 214 P.3d 150, 155 (2009).
* Graves v. Vaagen Bros. Lumber, Inc., 55 Wn. App. 908, 781 P.2d 895 (1989).*
* Graves v. Vaagen Bros. Lumber, Inc., 781 P.2d 895 (Wash. Ct. App. 1989).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Washington Reports or Washington Appellate Reports should, where possible, include citations to them, abbreviated as illustrated above ("Wn." rather than The Bluebook's "Wash."), in parallel with citations to the regional reporter. Pinpoint cites need only use the page numbers in the official report or in the case of decisions issued since 2004 the paragraph numbers appearing in the official report.


West Virginia
* Syl. pt. 3, Cline v. Paramount Pac., Inc., 156 W. Va. 641, 196 S.E.2d 87 (1973).*
* Cline v. Paramount Pac., Inc., 196 S.E.2d 87 (W. Va. 1973).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in West Virginia Reports should, where possible, include citations to those reports, in parallel with citations to the regional reporter. Case holdings should, were possible, be cited to syllabus points in the format illustrated.



Wisconsin
* Aicher v. Wis. Patients Comp., 2000 WI 98, ¶ 53, 237 Wis. 2d 99, 613 N.W.2d 849.*
* Aicher v. Wis. Patients Comp., 613 N.W.2d 849, 865 (Wis. 2000).
* 	Strasser v. Transtech Mobile Fleet Serv., Inc., 2000 WI 87, ¶ 60, 236 Wis. 2d 435, 613 N.W.2d 142.*
* Strasser v. Transtech Mobile Fleet Serv., Inc., 613 N.W.2d 142, 155-56 (Wis. 2000).
* Sudgen v. Bock, 2002 WI App 49, 251 Wis. 2d 344, 641 N.W.2d 693.*
* Sudgen v. Bock, 641 N.W.2d 693 (Wis. Ct. App. 2002).
* 	Blossom Farm Prods. Co. v. Kasson Cheese Co., 134 Wis. 2d 458, 401 N.W.2d 10 (1987).*
* Blossom Farm Prods. Co. v. Kasson Cheese Co., 401 N.W.2d 10 (Wis. 1987).
* Lipke v. Waushara Elec. Coop., 151 Wis. 2d 784, 447 N.W.2d 394 (Ct. App. 1989).*
* Lipke v. Waushara Elec. Coop., 447 N.W.2d 394 (Wis. Ct. App. 1989).

* In-state references to decisions appearing in Wisconsin Reports should, where possible, include citations to those reports, in parallel with the regional reporter. In addition, in-state references to decisions from 2000 forward should include a medium-neutral citation which, under Wisconsin rules, consists of the year, a court identifier, and a sequential decision number in the format shown here. Pinpoint cites should be to the paragraph numbers assigned by the court.


Wyoming
* State v. Nelson, 2002 WY 99, ¶ 6, 49 P.3d 185 (Wyo. 2002).*
* State v. Nelson, 49 P.3d 185, 188 (Wyo. 2002).
* Wagner v. Wyo. Prod. Credit Ass'n, 773 P.2d 927 (Wyo. 1989).

* In-state references to decisions from 2001 forward should include a medium-neutral citation which, under Wyoming rules, consists of the year, the state postal abbreviation, and a sequential decision number in the format shown here. Pinpoint cites should be to the paragraph numbers assigned by the court. From January 1, 2004, forward the inclusion of a parallel cite is optional.

§ 3-220. Case Citations – Variants and Special Cases	

Illustrations

Flamme v. Wolf Ins. Agency, [Insurance] Auto. L. Rep. (CCH) ¶ 18,307 (Neb. Nov. 8, 1991).
Collins v. United States, 3 Fed. Est. & Gift Tax Rep. (CCH)
¶ 60,060 (W.D. Okla. Jan. 31, 1991).
Marks v. Hochhauser, No. 16-4029, 2017 BL 425598 at *4- 7 (2d Cir. Nov. 29, 2017).
Marks v. Hochhauser, No. 16-4029, 2017 U.S. App. LEXIS 24086 at *10-16 (2d Cir. Nov. 29, 2017).
Marks v. Hochhauser, No. 16-4029, 2017 WL 5760345 at
*4-5 (2d Cir. Nov. 29, 2017).
Free Range Content, Inc. v. Google Inc. No. 14-cv-02329- BLF, slip op. at 4 (N.D. Cal. Aug. 25, 2015).


§ 3-230. Medium-Neutral Case Citations	

Illustration

Linderkamp v. Hoffman, 1997 ND 64, ¶ 11, 562 N.W.2d 734.
Additional Examples

* Arkansas
* Colorado
* Illinois
* Louisiana
* Maine
* Mississippi
* Montana
* New Mexico
* North Dakota
* Ohio
* Oklahoma
* South Dakota
* Utah
* Vermont
* Wisconsin
* Wyoming

§ 3-240. Case Citations – Conditional Items	

Illustrations

City of Indianapolis v. Edmond, 531 U.S. 31, 50 (2000) (Rehnquist, C.J., dissenting).
Edmond v. Goldsmith, 183 F.3d 659 (7th Cir. 1999), aff'd, 531 U.S. 31 (2000).
Davis v. Barnhart, 2005 U.S. App. LEXIS 22201 (11th Cir. Oct. 12, 2005) (unpublished).



Illustration

U.S. Const. amend. XIV, § 1.

For short form examples see § 6-530.

Additional Examples

U.S. Const. art. III, § 2, cl. 2.

U.S. Const. amend. XIII, § 2.

N.Y. Const. art. I, § 9, cl. 2.

§ 3-320. Statute Citations – Most Common Form	

Illustrations

42 U.S.C. § 405(a).
Iowa Code § 602.1614.

For short form examples see § 6-530.

Additional Examples

Federal Statute Citations | State Statute Citations

Federal Statute Citations:

42 U.S.C. § 405(a).

42 U.S.C. § 405(r)(2) (2019) (as amended in 2015 by Pub. L. No. 114-74). 42 U.S.C. § 405(r)(2) (2012) (prior to the 2015 amendment).
State Statute Citations

In states where a citation variant appears against a different background there is a distinct statute citation format used within the jurisdiction by state courts and those submitting memoranda or briefs to them.

* Alabama | Alaska | Arizona | Arkansas
* California | Colorado | Connecticut | Delaware
* District of Columbia | Florida | Georgia | Hawaii
* Idaho | Illinois | Indiana | Iowa
* Kansas | Kentucky | Louisiana | Maine
* Maryland | Massachusetts | Michigan | Minnesota
* Mississippi | Missouri | Montana | Nebraska
* Nevada | New Hampshire | New Jersey | New Mexico
* New York | North Carolina | North Dakota | Ohio
* Oklahoma | Oregon | Pennsylvania | Rhode Island
* South Carolina | South Dakota | Tennessee | Texas
* Utah | Vermont | Virginia | Washington
* West Virginia | Wisconsin | Wyoming

Alabama
* Ala. Code § 7-1-101 ({date if needed}).*
* Ala. Code § 7-1-101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* Ala. Code 1975, § 7-1-101.**
* § 7-1-101, Ala. Code 1975.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example. The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case.

** Within Alabama these altered citation formats are used in decisions of the state’s own courts and submissions to them.


Alaska
* Alaska Stat. § 45.01.101 ({date if needed}).
* AS 45.01.101.*

* Within Alaska this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to. See Alaska Stat. § 01.05.011 (2009).


Arizona
* Ariz. Rev. Stat. § 47-1101 ({date if needed}).
* Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 47-1101 ({date if needed}).*
* Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 47-1101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* A.R.S. § 47-1101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the third example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Arizona this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes are referred to. See Ariz. Rev. Stat. § 1-101.



Arkansas
* Ark. Code § 4-1-101 ({date if needed}).
* Ark. Code Ann. § 4-1-101 ({date if needed}).*
* Ark. Code Ann. § 4-1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* A.C.A. § 4-1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the third example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Arkansas this more economical statutory citation format is sometimes used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to. See Ark. Code § 1-2-113(c).


California
* Cal. Com. Code § 1101 ({date if needed}).
* Cal. Com. Code § 1101 (Deering {date if needed}).*
* Cal. Com. Code § 1101 (West {date if needed}).*
* Commercial Code § 1101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - Deering (now owned by LexisNexis) in the second example, West in the third. The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

Where this example has the abbreviation for "Commercial" citations to California's other subject matter codes should substitute their abbreviations - e.g., "Civ." for "Civil" or "Prob." for "Probate."

** Within California this statutory citation format, with no explicit indication of the jurisdiction, but spelling out the name of the cited code in full, is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.



Colorado
* Colo. Rev. Stat. § 4-1-101 ({date if needed}).
* Colo. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 4-1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* § 1-101, 4 C.R.S. (date)**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the third example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Colorado this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes are referred to.


Connecticut
* Conn. Gen. Stat. § 42a-1-101 ({date if needed}).
* Conn. Gen. Stat. Ann. § 42a-1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* General Statutes § 42a-1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Connecticut this statutory citation format, with no explicit indication of the jurisdiction, but spelling out the name of the code in full, is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.



Delaware
* Del. Code tit. 6, § 1-101 ({date if needed}).*
* Del. Code Ann. tit. 6, § 1-101 ({date if needed}).*
* Del. Code Ann. tit. 6, § 1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* 6 Del. C. § 1-101.**

* Neither The Bluebook nor the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation calls for identification of the publisher when its version is "official" being produced under contract with the state (LexisNexis in this case). However, both call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Delaware this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to. See Del.
Code Ann. tit. 1, 101(b).


District of Columbia
* D.C. Code § 28:1-101 ({date if needed}).*
* D.C. Code Ann. § 28:1-101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.


Florida
* Fla. Stat. § 671.1-101 ({date if needed}).
* Fla. Stat. Ann. § 671.1-101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* Fla. Stat. Ann. § 671.1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* § 671.1-101, Fla. Stat. ({date}).**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example, West in the third. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Florida this altered citation order is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.



Georgia
* Ga. Code Ann. § 11-1-101 ({date if needed}).*
* Ga. Code Ann. § 11-1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* O.C.G.A. § 11-1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Georgia this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to. See Ga.
Code Ann. § 1-1-8(e).


Hawaii
* Haw. Rev. Stat. § 490:1-101 ({date if needed}).
* Haw. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 490:1-101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* Haw. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 490:1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* HRS § 490:1-101.**
* H.R.S. § 490:1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Hawaii these more economical statutory citation formats are used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, sometimes after a first statutory reference using a less abbreviated form.



Idaho
* Idaho Code Ann. § 28-1-101 ({date if needed}).*
* Idaho Code Ann. § 28-1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* I.C. § 28-1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Idaho this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.


Illinois
* 810 Ill. Comp. Stat. § 5/1-101 ({date if needed}).
* 810 Ill. Comp. Stat. Ann. § 5/1-101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* 810 Ill. Comp. Stat. Ann. § 5/1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* 810 ILCS 5/1-101 (West {date}).**

* Both The Bluebook and ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example, West in the third. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Illinois this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes are referred to.



Indiana
* Ind. Code § 26-1-1-101 ({date if needed}).
* Ind. Code Ann. § 26-1-1-101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* Ind. Code Ann. § 26-1-1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* § 26-1-1-101 I.C..**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example, West in the third. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Indiana this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, after an initial full citation.


Iowa
* Iowa Code § 554.1101 ({date if needed}).
* Iowa Code Ann. § 554.1101 (West {date if needed}).*

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.


Kansas
* Kan. Stat. Ann. § 84-1-101 ({date if needed}).
* Kan. Stat. Ann. § 84-1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* K.S.A. § 84-1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Kansas this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.



Kentucky
* Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 355.1-101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 355.1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* KRS § 355.1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the first example, West in the second. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Kentucky this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.


Louisiana
* La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 10:1-101 ({date if needed}).*
* La. Code Civ. Proc. Ann. § 10:1-101 ({date if needed}).*
* LSA § 10:1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not indicate whether the version used was annotated.

Where this example has the abbreviation for "Code of Civil Procedure" citations to Louisiana's other subject matter codes should substitute their abbreviations - e.g., "Civ. Code" for "Civil Code" or "Code Crim. Proc." for "Code of Criminal Procedure."

** Within Louisiana this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes are referred to.


Maine
* Me. Stat. tit. 11, § 1-101 ({date if needed})
* Me. Rev. Stat. Ann. tit. 11, § 1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* 11 M.R.S. §1-101 ({date if needed}).**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Maine this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes are referred to.



Maryland
* Md. Code, Com. Law § 1-101 ({date if needed}).
* Md. Code Ann., Com. Law § 1-101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* Md. Code Ann., Com. Law § 1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* Md. Code ({date if needed}), Commercial Law Art., § 1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example, West in the third. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

Where this example has the abbreviation for "Commercial Law" citations to Maryland's other subject matter divisions should substitute their abbreviations - e.g., "Crim. Law" for "Criminal Law" or "Ins." for "Insurance."

** Within Maryland this altered citation format, generally followed by a two-letter short form, is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


Massachusetts
* Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 106, § 1-101 ({date if needed}).
* Mass. Ann. Laws ch. 106, § 1-101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* Mass. Gen. Laws Ann. ch. 106, § 1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* G. L. c. 106, § 1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example, West in the third. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Massachusetts this more economical statutory citation format, with no explicit indication of jurisdiction, is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.



Michigan
* Mich. Comp. Laws § 440.1101 ({date if needed}).
* Mich. Stat. Ann. § 19.1101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* Mich. Comp. Laws Ann. § 440.1101 (West {date if needed}).*
* MCL 440.1101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example, West in the third. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Michigan this more economical statutory citation format set out in an administrative order is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them. For the full order see § 7-500.


Minnesota
* Minn. Stat. § 336.1-101 ({date if needed}).
* Minn. Stat. Ann. § 336.1-101 (West {date if needed}).*

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.


Mississippi
* Miss. Code Ann. § 75-4-101 ({date if needed}).*
* Miss. Code Ann. § 75-4-101 (West {date if needed}).*

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.



Missouri
* Mo. Rev. Stat. § 400.1-101 ({date if needed}).
* Mo. Ann. Stat. § 400.1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* § 400.1-101, RSMo {date if needed}.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Missouri this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes are referred to.


Montana
* Mont. Code Ann. § 30-2A-101 ({date if needed}).*
* Mont. Code Ann. § 30-2A-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* § 30-2A-101, MCA.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Montana this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.


Nebraska
* Neb. Rev. Stat. § 2-101 ({date if needed}).
* Neb. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 2-101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* Neb. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 2-101 (West {date if needed}).*

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example, West in the third. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.



Nevada
* Nev. Rev. Stat. § 104.1101 ({date if needed}).
* Nev. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 104.1101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* Nev. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 104.1101 (West {date if needed}).*
* NRS 104.1101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example, West in the third. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Nevada this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to. See Nev. Rev. Stat. § 220.170(4).


New Hampshire
* N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 382-A: 1-101 ({date if needed}).*
* N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 382-A: 1-101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* RSA 382-A: 1-101 ({date if needed}).**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within New Hampshire this more economical statutory citation format, with no explicit indication of jurisdiction, is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes are referred to.



New Jersey
* N.J. Rev. Stat. § 12A:1-101 ({date if needed}).
* N.J. Stat. Ann. § 12A:1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* N.J.S.A. 12A:1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within New Jersey this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


New Mexico
* N.M. Stat. § 55-1-101 ({date if needed}).
* N.M. Stat. Ann. § 55-1-101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* N.M. Stat. Ann. § 55-1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* NMSA 1978, § 55-1-101 ({date if needed}).**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example, West in the third. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within New Mexico this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.



New York
* N.Y. U.C.C. Law § 1-101 (Consol. {date if needed}).*
* N.Y. U.C.C. Law § 1-101 (Gould {date if needed}).*
* N.Y. U.C.C. Law § 1-101 (McKinney {date if needed}).*
* U.C.C. Law § 1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - the LexisNexis Consolidated Law Service in the first example, its Gould brand in the second, West's McKinney brand in the third. The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher or brand in any case.

Where this example has the abbreviation for "Uniform Commercial Code" citations to New York's other subject matter divisions should substitute their abbreviations - e.g., "Dom.
Rel." for "Domestic Relations" or "Ins." for "Insurance."

** Within New York this statutory citation format, with no explicit indication of jurisdiction, is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.


North Carolina
* N.C. Gen. Stat. § 25-1-101 ({date if needed}).
* N.C. Gen. Stat. Ann. § 25-1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* N.C.G.S. § 25-1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within North Carolina this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.



North Dakota
* N.D. Cent. Code § 41-01-01 ({date if needed}).
* N.D. Cent. Code § 41-01-01 (West {date if needed}).
* N.D.C.C. § 41-01-01.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within North Dakota this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


Ohio
* Ohio Rev. Code § 1301.01 ({date if needed}).*
* Ohio Rev. Code Ann. § 1301.01 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* Ohio Rev. Code Ann. § 1301.01 (West {date if needed}).*
* R.C. 1301.01.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example, West in the third. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Ohio this more economical statutory citation format, with no explicit indication of jurisdiction, is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.



Oklahoma
* Okla. Stat. tit. 12A, § 1-101 ({date if needed}).
* Okla. Stat. Ann. tit. 12A, § 1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* 12A O.S. § 1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Oklahoma this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.


Oregon
* Or. Rev. Stat. § 71.1010 ({date if needed}).
* Or. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 71.1010 (West {date if needed}).*
* ORS 71.1010.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Oregon this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.


Pennsylvania
* 13 Pa. Cons. Stat. § 1101 ({date if needed}).
* 13 Pa. Stat. and Cons. Stat. Ann. § 1101 (West {date if needed}).*
* 13 Pa.C.S. § 1101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Pennsylvania this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.



Rhode Island
* R.I. Gen. Laws § 6-1-1 ({date if needed}).
* R.I. Gen. Laws § 6-1-1 (West {date if needed}).*
* G.L. 1956 § 6-1-1.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Rhode Island this more economical statutory citation format, with no explicit indication of jurisdiction, is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.



South Carolina
* S.C. Code Ann. § 36-1-101 ({date if needed}).*

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not indicate whether the version used was annotated.


South Dakota
* S.D. Codified Laws § 57A-1-101 ({date if needed}).
* SDCL 57A-1-101.*

* Within South Dakota this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.



Tennessee
* Tenn. Code Ann. § 47-1-101 ({date if needed}).*
* Tenn. Code Ann. § 47-1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* T.C.A. § 47-1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Tennessee this more economical statutory citation format is often used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.



Texas
* Tex. Bus. & Com. Code § 1.101 ({date if needed}).
* Tex. Bus. & Com. Code Ann. § 1.101 (Vernon {date if needed}).*
* TEX. BUS. & COM. CODE § 1.101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West's Vernon brand in the third. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

Where this example has the abbreviation for "Business and Commerce" citations to Texas's other subject matter divisions should substitute their abbreviations - e.g., "Educ." for "Education" or "Ins." for "Insurance."

** Within Texas this slightly altered citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


Utah
* Utah Code § 70A 1-101 ({date if needed}).
* Utah Code Ann. § 70A 1-101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* Utah Code Ann. § 70A 1-101 (West {date if needed}).*

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state – LexisNexis in the second example, West in the third. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.


Vermont
* Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. 9A, § 1-101 ({date if needed}).*
* Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. 9A, § 1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* 9A V.S.A. § 1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state – West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Vermont this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.


Virginia
* Va. Code Ann. § 8.1-101 ({date if needed}).*
* Va. Code Ann. § 8.1-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* Code § 8.1-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Virginia this more economical statutory citation format, with no explicit indication of jurisdiction, is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.



Washington
* Wash. Rev. Code § 62A 2-101 ({date if needed}).
* Wash. Rev. Code Ann. § 62A 2-101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* Wash. Rev. Code Ann. § 62A.2-101 (West {date if needed}).*
* RCW 62A 2-101.**

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example, West in the third. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.

** Within Washington this more economical statutory citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's statutes and which version are referred to.


West Virginia
* W. Va. Code § 46-1-101 ({date if needed}).
* W. Va. Code Ann. § 46-1-101 (LexisNexis {date if needed}).*
* W. Va. Code Ann. § 46-1-101 (West {date if needed}).*

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - LexisNexis in the second example, West in the third. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.


Wisconsin
* Wis. Stat. § 402.101 ({date if needed}).
* Wis. Stat. Ann. § 402.101 (West {date if needed}).*

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for identification of the publisher or brand of any commercial compilation used, not prepared under direct supervision of the state - West in the second example. Both also call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not include the publisher in any case nor would it indicate whether the version used was annotated.



Wyoming
* Wyo. Stat. § 34.1-1-101 ({date if needed}).
* Wyo. Stat. Ann. § 34.1-1-101 ({date if needed}).*

* Both The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation call for adding the designation "Ann." when the compilation's name includes the word "annotated." The AALL Universal Citation Guide would not indicate whether the version used was annotated.

§ 3-340. Statute Citations – Variants and Special Cases	

§ 3-341. Session Laws

Illustrations

House Page Board Revision Act of 2007, Pub. L. No. 110-2, 121 Stat. 4.
Health Risk Limits for Perfluorooctanoic Acid and Perfluorooctane Sulfonate, 2007 Minn. Laws ch.
37, https://www.revisor.mn.gov/laws/2007/0/Session+Law/ Chapter/37/.

§ 3-342. Bills

Illustration

H.R. 2971, 108th Cong. § 101 (2003).

§ 3-343. Named Statutes, Original Section Numbers

Illustration

Social Security Act § 223(e), 42 U.S.C. § 423(e).

§ 3-344. Internal Revenue Code

Illustration

I.R.C. § 21.

§ 3-345. Uniform Acts and Model Codes

Illustrations

U.C.C. § 2-202 (amended 2003).
Unif. Probate Code § 2-107 (amended 1990), 8(I) U.L.A. 87 (1998).

Model Bus. Corp. Act § 10.01 (2002).

§ 3-350. Local Ordinance Citations	

Illustration

Cincinnati, Ohio, Municipal Code § 302-3.

§ 3-360. Treaty Citations	

Illustration

North American Free Trade Agreement, U.S.-Can.-Mex., art. 705(3), Dec. 17, 1992, 32 I.L.M. 289 (1993).




Illustrations

49 C.F.R. § 236.403. Code Me. R. 12 170 7 § 5.
For short form examples see § 6-540.

Additional Examples - State Regulation Citations

In states where a citation variant appears against a different background there is a distinct regulation citation format used within the jurisdiction by state courts and those submitting memoranda or briefs to them.

The Bluebook and the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation occasionally diverge in their abbreviations for compilations of state regulations. The Bluebook normalizes all code abbreviations to begin with the state name. For example, Maine's compilation, as published by Weil (now owned by LexisNexis) is entitled "Code of Maine Rules." The ALWD Guide to Legal Citation renders that as "Code Me. R."; but The Bluebook converts it to "Me. Code.
R." A comparable divergence exists in a few other (but not all) states for which Weil publishes regulations. In all instances where there are competing abbreviations, the following chart follows The Bluebook format. However, while The Bluebook sometimes, but not consistently, includes the name of the publisher of a compilation, e.g., Weil, in the concluding parentheses, ahead of the date, the following examples, following the dominant professional practice, omit reference to the publisher in all cases.

* Alabama | Alaska | Arizona | Arkansas
* California | Colorado | Connecticut | Delaware
* District of Columbia | Florida | Georgia | Hawaii
* Idaho | Illinois | Indiana | Iowa
* Kansas | Kentucky | Louisiana | Maine
* Maryland | Massachusetts | Michigan | Minnesota
* Mississippi | Missouri | Montana | Nebraska
* Nevada | New Hampshire | New Jersey | New Mexico
* New York | North Carolina | North Dakota | Ohio
* Oklahoma | Oregon | Pennsylvania | Rhode Island
* South Carolina | South Dakota | Tennessee | Texas
* Utah | Vermont | Virginia | Washington
* West Virginia | Wisconsin | Wyoming

Alabama
* Ala. Admin. Code r. 250-X-5-.05 ({date if needed}).
* Ala. Admin. Code, Rule 250-X-.05.*
* Ala. Admin. Code, Regulation 250-X-.05.*
* Within Alabama these altered citation formats are used in decisions of the state’s own courts and submissions to them.

Alaska
* Alaska Admin. Code tit. 8, § 15.160 ({date if needed}).
* 8 AAC 15.160.*

* Within Alaska this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's regulations are referred to.


Arizona
* Ariz. Admin. Code R9-10-248 ({date if needed}).
* A.A.C. R9-10-248.*

* Within Arizona this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's regulations and which version are referred to.


Arkansas
* Ark. Code R. 007.05.4-8 ({date if needed}).

California
* Cal. Code Regs. tit. 14, § 757 ({date if needed}).
* Cal. Code Regs., tit. 14, § 757.*
* Within California this very slightly altered citation format is used in decisions of the state’s own courts and submissions to them.


Colorado
* 3 Code Colo. Regs. § 702-4-7-2 ({date if needed}).
* 3 Colo. Code Regs. § 702-4-7-2 ({date if needed}).*

* Within Colorado this differently ordered citation format is used in decisions of the state’s own courts and submissions to them.


Connecticut
* Conn. Agencies Regs. § 199-589-1 ({date if needed}).
* Regs., Conn. State Agencies § 199-589-1.*

* Within Connecticut this slightly different format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


Delaware
* 14-505 Del. Admin. Code § 4.1 ({date if needed}).

District of Columbia
* D.C. Mun. Regs. tit. 5, § 602.1 ({date if needed}).
* 5 DCMR § 4.1.*

* Within D.C. this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the district's courts and submissions to them.


Florida
* Fla. Admin. Code r. 29F-9.004 ({date if needed}).
* Fla. Admin. Code R. 29F-9.004.*

* Within Florida this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


Georgia
* Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. r. 272-2-.07(1)(u) ({date if needed}).

Hawaii
* Haw. Code R. § 38-5.2 ({date if needed}).
* HAR § 17-202-1(b).*

* Within Hawaii this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's regulations and which version are referred to.



Idaho
* Idaho Admin. Code r. 07.05.01.500 ({date if needed}).
* IDAPA 07.05.01.500.*

* Within Idaho this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's regulations and which version are referred to.


Illinois
* Ill. Admin. Code tit. 2, pt. 551 ({date if needed}).
* 2 Ill. Admin. Code pt. 551 ({date if needed}).*

* Within Illinois this slightly different format is sometimes used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


Indiana
* 45 Ind. Admin. Code r. 1-1-64 ({date if needed}).
* 45 I.A.C. 1-1-64.*
* 45 IAC 1-1-64.*

* Within Indiana these more economical regulation citation formats are used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, after an initial full citation.



Iowa
* Iowa Admin. Code r. 111-7.2 ({date if needed}).

Kansas
* Kan. Admin. Regs. § 92-12-72 ({date if needed}).
* K.A.R. 92-12-72.*

* Within Kansas this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's regulations and which version are referred to.


Kentucky
* 405 Ky. Admin. Regs. 1:120, § 4(2) ({date if needed}).
* 405 KAR 1:120, § 4(2).*

* Within Kentucky this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's regulations and which version are referred to.


Louisiana
* La. Admin. Code tit. 7, § 8791 ({date if needed}).

Maine
* 12 152 Me. Code R. 12 § 5 ({date if needed}).
* 12 152 CMR 12 § 5 ({date if needed}).*

* Within Maine this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's regulations are referred to.



Maryland
* Md. Code Regs. 21.11.05.01.B ({date if needed}).
* COMAR 21.11.05.01.B.*

* Within Maryland this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's regulations and which version are referred to.


Massachusetts
* 105 Mass. Code Regs. § 531.252 ({date if needed}).
* 105 Code Mass. Regs. § 531.252.*

* Within Massachusetts this slightly different format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


Michigan
* Mich. Admin. Code r. 209.21 ({date if needed}).
* Mich Admin Code, R 209.21.*

* Within Michigan this slightly different format set out in an administrative order is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them. For the full order see § 7-500


Minnesota
* Minn. R. 1550.1760 ({date if needed}).

Mississippi
* Miss. Code R. 26-1:1.7 ({date if needed}).

Missouri
* Mo. Code Regs. tit.8, § 60-2.025(9) ({date if needed}).
* 8 CSR 60-2.025(9).*

* Within Missouri this more economical regulation citation format, with no explicit indication of jurisdiction, is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's regulations and which version are referred to.



Montana
* Mont. Admin. R. 20.25.401(4) ({date if needed}).
* ARM 20.25.401(4).*
* Admin. R. M. 20.25.401(4).*

* Within Montana this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's regulations and which version are referred to.


Nebraska
* 291 Neb. Admin. Code, ch. 8, § 002.07E6 ({date if needed}).

Nevada
* Nev. Admin. Code § 289.110 ({date if needed}).
* NAC 289.110.*

* Within Nevada this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's regulations and which version are referred to.


New Hampshire
* N.H. Code Admin. R. Lab. 403.01 ({date if needed}).
* N.H. Admin. Rules, Lab 403.01.*

* Within New Hampshire this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.

Where this example has the abbreviation for "Labor" substitute the abbreviation for the department issuing the cited rules as abbreviated in them.


New Jersey
* N.J. Admin. Code § 5:93-1.3 ({date if needed}).
* N.J.A.C. 5:93-1.3.*

* Within New Jersey this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.



New Mexico
* N.M. Code R. § 11.4.7.10 ({date if needed}).
* 11.4.7.10 NMAC ({date if needed}).*

* Within New Mexico, this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them. Since 2000 the administrative code has been formatted with the full section number preceding the abbreviation "NMAC."


New York
* 9 N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. § 591.3 ({date if needed}).
* 9 NYCRR 591.3.*

* Within New York this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


North Carolina
* 17 N.C. Admin. Code 5C.0703 ({date if needed}).
* 17 NCAC 5C.0703 ({date if needed}).*

* Within North Carolina this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


North Dakota
* N.D. Admin. Code 75-02-04.1-09(2)(j) ({date if needed}).
* N.D.A.C. § 75-02-04.1-09(2)(j).*

* Within North Dakota this more economical regulation citation format is often used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


Ohio
* Ohio Admin. Code 1501:13-1-02 ({date if needed}).


Oklahoma
* Okla. Admin. Code § 715:10-15-10(3) ({date if needed}).
* OAC 715:10-15-10(3).*

* Within Oklahoma this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's regulations are referred to.


Oregon
* Or. Admin. R. 471-031-0090 ({date if needed}).
* OAR 471-031-0090.*

* Within Oregon this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's regulations and which version are referred to.


Pennsylvania
* 1 Pa. Code § 1.4 ({date if needed}).

Rhode Island
* 04 000 R.I. Code R. § 010 ({date if needed}).
* Code R.I. Reg. 04 000 010 ({date if needed}).*

* Within Rhode Island this slightly different citation format is sometimes used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


South Carolina
* S.C. Code Regs. 38-005 ({date if needed}).
* S.C. Code Reg. 38-005.*

* Within South Carolina this slightly different citation format is sometimes used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.



South Dakota
* S.D. Admin. R. 5:02:08.19 ({date if needed}).
* ARSD 5:02:08.19.*

* Within South Dakota this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


Tennessee
* Tenn. Comp. R. & Regs. 0520-4-1-.03 ({date if needed}).

Texas
* 16 Tex. Admin. Code § 23.24 ({date if needed}).
* 16 TEX. ADMIN. CODE § 23.24.*

* Within Texas this slightly altered citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


Utah
* Utah Admin. Code r. 212-8 ({date if needed}).

Vermont
* Vt. Code R. 12 004 001 § 5 ({date if needed}).
* Code of Vt. Rules 12 004 001-5.*

* Within Vermont this altered citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


Virginia
* 19 Va. Admin. Code 30-20-40 ({date if needed}).
* 19 VAC 30-20-40.*

* Within Virginia this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's regulations and which version are referred to.



Washington
* Wash. Admin. Code 173-27-140(1) ({date if needed}).
* WAC 173-27-140(1).*

* Within Washington this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them, under circumstances where there is little ambiguity about which jurisdiction's regulations and which version are referred to.


West Virginia
* W. Va. Code R. § 127-2-3.1 ({date if needed}).
* W. Va. C.S.R. § 127-2-3.1.*

* Within West Virginia this more economical regulation citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.


Wisconsin
* Wis. Admin. Code Trans. § 101.04(3) ({date if needed}).
* Wis. Admin. Code § Trans. 101.04(3) ({date if needed}).*

* Within Wisconsin, this slightly altered citation format is used in decisions of the state's own courts and submissions to them.

Where this example has the abbreviation for "Transportation" substitute the abbreviation for the department issuing rules as abbreviated in them.


Wyoming
* 025-220-001 Wyo. Code R. § 4(t) ({date if needed}).

§ 3-420. Regulation Citations – Variants and Special Cases	

Illustrations

Rate-of-Return Reform, 82 Fed. Reg. 57,161 (Dec. 4, 2017) (announcing effective date of amendment to 47 C.F.R. § 51.917(f)(4)).
Revisions to Rules Authorizing the Operation of Low Power Auxiliary Stations in the 698-806 MHz Band, 75 Fed. Reg.
3639 (Jan. April 22, 2010) (amending 47 C.F.R. pt. 15).
Proposed Permanent Rules Relating to Nitrous Oxide and Infection Control, 41 Minn. Reg. 947, 949 (Feb. 6, 2017),
adopted 42 Minn. Reg. 226 (Aug. 21, 2017) (amending Minn. R. 3100.3600(4)(B)).

§ 3-450. Agency Adjudications	

Illustrations

National Treasury Employees Union, Chapter 65, 57
F.L.R.A. No. 3 (Mar. 12, 2001).
Altercare of Hartville., 321 N.L.R.B. 847 (1996).
Gulf Coast Rebar Inc., 365 N.L.R.B. No. 128 (Sept. 18, 2017),
https://apps.nlrb.gov/link/document.aspx/09031d458255125 1.


§ 3-470. Agency Report Citations	

Illustrations

1981 S.E.C. Ann. Rep. 21.
U.S. General Accounting Office, SSA: Enhanced Procedures and Guidance Could Improve Service and Reduce Overpayments to Concurrent Beneficiaries 11 (2002).

§ 3-480. Executive Orders and Proclamations	

Illustrations

Exec. Order No. 12,893, 59 Fed. Reg. 4233 (Jan. 31, 1994).
Proclamation No. 7202, 3 C.F.R. 48 (2000).
Mich. Exec. Order No. 2003-4 (Feb. 27, 2003), http://www.michigan.gov/granholm/0,4587,7-168-21975- 62542--,00.html.

§ 3-490. Attorney General and Other Advisory Opinions	

Illustrations

38 Op. Att'y Gen. 98 (1934).
Authority Under the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act to Close or Realign National Guard Installations Without the Consent of State Governors, Op. Off. Legal Counsel (Aug. 10, 2005).
86 Cal. Att'y Gen. Op. No. 03-105 (June 19, 2003).



Illustration

United States - Tax Treatment for "Foreign Sales Corporations," World Trade Organization No. 108 (Aug. 30, 2002) (Falconer, Chambovey & Seung Wha Chang, Arbs.).



Illustrations

Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(6).
Fed. R. Crim. P. 7(b).
Tenn. R. Civ. P. 56.04.
N.J. Ct. R. 3:8-3.

Additional Examples - State Rule Citations

Alabama
* Rule 55, Ala. R. Civ. P.
Alaska
* Alaska R. App. P. 602(h).
Arizona
* Ariz. R.P. Juv. Ct. 46(E), 64(C).
Arkansas
* Ark. Sup. Ct. R. 1-2(d).
California
* Cal. R. Ct. 3.350.
Colorado
* Colo. R. Civ. P. 16(c).
Connecticut
* Practice Book § 16-32.
Delaware
* Del. Super. Ct. Civ. R. 59(e).
District of Columbia
* Super. Ct. Agency Rev. R. 1 (e).
Florida
* Fla. R. App. P. 9.330(d)(2).
Georgia
* Uniform Superior Court Rules 33.7, 33.8, and 33.9.
Hawaii
* HRCP Rule 60(b).
Idaho
* Idaho R. Civ. P. 54(e)(3).
Illinois
* Ill. S. Ct. R. 366.
Indiana
* P-C.R. 1(5).
Iowa
* Iowa R. Evid. 5.801(c).

Kansas
* Kansas Supreme Court Rule 6.02(a)(5) (2020 Kan. S. Ct. R. 35).
Kentucky
* SCR 3.480(3).
Louisiana
* La.S.Ct.R. IX, § 1.
Maine
* M.R.S.C.P. 15.
Maryland
* Maryland Rule 4-351.
Massachusetts
* Mass. R. Civ. P. 23.
Michigan
* MCR 6.302(B)(2).
Minnesota
* Minn. R. Civ. P. 5.04(c)(4).
Mississippi
* M.R.C.P. 59(a)(1).
Missouri
* Rule 55.33.
Montana
* M. R. App. P. 8(3).
Nebraska
* Neb. Ct. R. Disc. § 6-337.
Nevada
* NRCP 37(b).
New Hampshire
* Superior Court Civil Rule 16(d).
New Jersey
* N.J. Ct. R..
New Mexico
* Rule 1-012(C) NMRA.
New York
* CPLR 213 (2).
North Carolina
* N.C. R. Evid. 702(b).
North Dakota
* N.D.R.Civ.P. 25.
Ohio
* Evid.R. 606(B).
Oklahoma
* 12 O.S. 2011 § 2403.
Oregon
* ORAP 7.55.
Pennsylvania
* Pa.R.C.P. 227.1(b).
Rhode Island
* Super.R.Crim.P..
South Carolina
* Rule 71.1(a), SCRCP.

South Dakota
* RCP 54(b).
Tennessee
* Tenn. R. Civ. P. 56.04.
Texas
* Tex. R. Civ. P. 292(a).
Utah
* Utah R. Civ. P. 56(a).
Vermont
* V.R.A.P. 28(j).
Virginia
* Rule 7B:4(a).
Washington
* RAP 12.5.
West Virgina
* W. Va. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(7).
Wisconsin
* Wis. Stat. § 806.02.
Wyoming
* W.R.A.P. 10.05.



Illustration
2 Calvin W. Corman, Limitation of Actions § 12.1 (1991). Henry Julian Abraham, Justices, Presidents and Senators
290-95 (5th ed. 2008).
Wayne R. LaFave & Austin W. Scott, Criminal Law § 5.4 (2d ed. 1986).
Peter Hay et al., Conflict of Laws § 13.20, n.10 (5th ed. 2010).

For short form examples see § 6-550.

§ 3-720. Book Citations – Variants and Special Cases	

§ 3-721. Works by Institutional Authors

Illustrations

Enron Corp., 2000 Annual Report 30 (2001).
Nolan J. Malone, U. S. Bureau of the Census, Evaluating Components of International Migration: Consistency of 2000 Nativity Data (2001).
Research and Public Policy Department, National Urban League, The Impact of Social Security on Child Poverty 5 (2000).

§ 3-722. Services

Illustrations

Vill. of Grand View v. Skinner, 22 Envtl. L. Rep. (Envtl. L. Inst.) 20120 (2d Cir. Oct. 24, 1991).
Norling v. Valley Contracting, [2 Wages-Hours] Lab. L. Rep. (CCH) ¶ 35,543 (D.N.D. June 11, 1991).
Flamme v. Wolf Ins. Agency, [Insurance] Auto. L. Rep. (CCH) ¶ 18,307 (Neb. Nov. 8, 1991).

§ 3-723. Restatements

Illustrations

Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 30 (1981).
Restatement (Second) of Judgments § 57 cmt. b, illus. 3 (1982).

§ 3-724. Annotations

Illustrations

Francis M. Dougherty, Annotation, Insurer's Tort Liability for Wrongful or Negligent Issuance of Life Policy, 37 A.L.R.4th 972, 974 (1985).



Illustration

Dan T. Coenen, The Constitutional Case Against Intracircuit Nonacquiescence, 75 Minn. L. Rev. 1339, 1341 (1991).

For short form examples see § 6-560.

Additional Examples

Steven L. Carter, The Right Questions in the Creation of Constitutional Meaning, 66
B.U. L. Rev. 71 (1986).

Linda Liefland, Career Patterns of Male and Female Lawyers, 35 Buff. L. Rev. 601 (1986).

David A. Strauss, Persuasion, Autonomy, and Freedom of Expression, 91 Colum. L. Rev. 334 (1991).

Robert F. Nagel, How Useful is Judicial Review in Free Speech Cases?, 69 Cornell L. Rev. 302 (1984).

Michael Pertschuk & Kenneth M. Davidson, What's Wrong With Conglomerate Mergers?, 48 Fordham L. Rev. 1 (1979).

Steven G. Calabresi & Kevin H. Rhodes, The Structural Constitution: Unitary Executive, Plural Judiciary, 105 Harv. L. Rev. 1155, 1158 (1992).

Toni M. Massaro, Shame, Culture and American Criminal Law, 89 Mich. L. Rev. 1880 (1991).

Dan T. Coenen, The Constitutional Case Against Intracircuit Nonacquiescence, 75 Minn.
L. Rev. 1339, 1341 (1991).

James Wilson Harshaw III, Not Enough Time?: The Constitutionality of Short Statutes of Limitations for Civil Child Sexual Abuse Litigation, 50 Ohio St. L.J. 753 (1989).

David A.J. Richards, Originalism Without Foundations, 65 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 1373 (1990) (reviewing Robert Bork, The Tempting of America: The Political Seduction of the Law).

Edward Rubin, Television and the Experience of Citizenship, 68 Tex. L. Rev. 1155 (1990).

John J. Gibbons, Fictions, 20 Seton Hall L. Rev. 344 (1990).

Herbert Hovenkamp, The First Great Law & Economics Movement, 42 Stan. L. Rev. 993 (1990).

David C. Williams, The Borders of the Equal Protection Clause: Indians as Peoples, 38 UCLA L. Rev. 759 (1991).

Richard A. Epstein, All Quiet on the Eastern Front, 58 U. Chi. L. Rev. 555 (1991).

Rebecca L. Brown, Separated Powers and Ordered Liberty, 139 U. Pa. L. Rev. 1513 (1991).

Naomi R. Cahn, Civil Images of Battered Women: The Impact of Domestic Violence on Child Custody Decisions, 44 Vand. L. Rev. 1041 (1991).

William R. Stuntz, Warrants and Fourth Amendment Remedies, 77 Va. L. Rev. 881 (1991).

Allan R. Stein, Erie and Court Access, 100 Yale L.J. 1935 (1991).

Frank H. Easterbrook, Substance and Due Process, 1982 Sup. Ct. Rev. 85, 114.

Steven J. Rollins, Perceived Handicap Under the Wisconsin Fair Employment Act, 1988 Wis. L. Rev. 639.

§ 3-820. Journal Articles – Variants and Special Cases	

(1) Student Writing by a Named Student

Illustrations

John Moustakas, Note, Group Rights in Cultural Property: Justifying Strict Inalienability, 74 Cornell L. Rev. 1179, 1183 n.12 (1989).
Betsy Vencil, Comment, 26 Nat. Resources J. 606 (1986).

Additional Examples

Christopher M. Walters, Comment, Admission of Testimony on Eyewitness Identification, 73 Cal. L. Rev. 1402 (1985).

Thomas J. Mahoney, Jr., Note, The Tax Benefit Rule After Hillsboro, 37 Case W. Res. L. Rev. 362 (1986).

Mary Morton, Note, The Hearsay Rule and Epistemological Suicide, 74 Geo. L.J. 1301 (1986).

Scott H. Brandt, Recent Decision, 64 Temple L. Rev. 1007 (1991). Kerwin E. Miller, Case Note, 28 How. L.J. 313 (1985).
Lorelei Van Wei, Note, Private Facts Tort: The End Is Here, 52 Ohio St. L.J. 299 (1991).

Stephen J. Legatzke, Note, The Equitable Recoupment Doctrine in United States v. Dalm: Where's the Equity, 10 Va. Tax Rev. 861 (1991).

Helen L. Parise, Comment, The Proper Extension of Tort Liability Principles in the Managed Care Industry, 64 Temp. L. Rev. 977 (1991)

J. Brett Pritchard, Note, Conduct and Belief in the Free Exercise Clause: Developments and Deviations in Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Association, 76 Cornell L. Rev. 268, 281 (1990).

Brian Victor, Case Comment, The Citizen and the Serpent: State v. Rockholt and Entrapment in New Jersey, 38 Rutgers L. Rev. 589 (1986).

(2) Unsigned Student Writing

Illustrations

Recent Case, 103 Harv. L. Rev. 1732 (1990).
Recent Development, 1979 Wash. U.L.Q. 1161, 1164.
Recent Development, 104 Harv. L. Rev. 1723 (1991).

Additional Examples

Note, Computer Intellectual Property and Conceptual Severence, 103 Harv. L. Rev. 1046, 1057 (1990).

(3) Book Reviews

Illustrations

John M. Balkin, Nested Opposition, 99 Yale L.J. 1669 (1990) (reviewing John M. Ellis, Against Deconstruction (1989)).
Book Note, Generalizing Justice, 103 Harv. L. Rev. 1384, 1389 (1990) (reviewing Lenore E. Walker, Terrifying Love:

Why Battered Women Kill and How Society Responds
(1989)).

Additional Examples

Gerald Caplan, A Review of Death by Installments by Arthur S. Miller and Jeffrey H. Bowman, 57 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 1643 (1989) (book review).

Anthony E. Cook, The Temptation and Fall of Original Understanding, 1990 Duke L.J. 1163 (book review).

Tom A. Glassberg, Book Note, Defending White-Collar Crime: A Game Without Rules, 63 Wash. U. L.Q. 831 (1985) (book review).

Book Note, Selling One's Birth Rights, 102 Harv. L. Rev. 1074 (1989) (reviewing Martha A. Field, Surrogate Motherhood (1988)).

(4) Symposia and the Like

Illustrations

Project, Nineteenth Annual Review of Criminal Procedure: United States Supreme Court and Court of Appeals 1988- 1989, 78 Geo. L.J. 699 (1990).
Symposium, Probability and Inference in the Law of Evidence, 66 B.U. L. Rev. 377 (1986).

§ 4-000. ABBREVIATIONS AND OMISSIONS USED IN CITATIONS Contents | Index | Help | <
| >



Set out below is a table of two hundred words, in some cases with variants, that occur frequently in the names of institutional litigants, together with their corresponding abbreviations. Each is accompanied by a link to examples. The abbreviations listed here draw upon those contained in The Bluebook, the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation, and implemented in the major online legal research services. The table omits a host of words added by the most recent edition of The Bluebook, words that despite their use in journal names rarely appear in the title of a case. (See Bluebook Weight Loss Program – Part Two: The Merger of Tables T6 and T13.2, http://citeblog.access-to-law.com/?p=1074.)

A-B | C | D-E | F-L | M-O | P-R | S-Z

Abbreviate the listed words wherever they appear in a party's name that is part of a citation. In addition, abbreviate any state that is included in a party name. (See § 4-500.) When the case is being referred to in a sentence of the text itself rather than simply as a citation only the words starred [*] in the table below should be abbreviated and then only when not at the beginning of a party's name.

Be aware that there are a variety of other approaches to case name abbreviation practiced by courts and lawyers throughout the United States. Some (including the U.S. Supreme Court) do not abbreviate the first word in a party name. If you employ an approach other than the one set out here, do so consistently. The existence of divergent approaches gives rise to a very real need to review the abbreviations used in citations you have extracted from the writing of others or drawn from different research services. Case citations in decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court, the California Supreme Court, and the New York Court of Appeals, for example, do not adhere to the abbreviation norms summarized here. (See generally Should It Be "Commissioner", "Comm'r", or "Commr."?, http://citeblog.access-to-law.com/?p=113.)

Any other word of eight letters or more not on the following list may also be abbreviated if the abbreviation chosen saves substantial space and reasonably connotes the original word. For a number of words, both major manuals employ contractions (e.g., "Eng'r" and "Int'l").

Except when the abbreviation list explicitly provides for the plural, the plural of a listed word is abbreviated by adding an "s" to the abbreviation of the singular.

Thus:

* Eng'r	Eng'rs
* Enter.  Enters.
* Mfr.	Mfrs.


A-B

* Academy - Acad.  «e.g.»
* Account or Accountant or Accounting - Acct. «e.g.»
* Administrative or Administration - Admin. «e.g.»
* Administrator or Administratrix - Adm'[r,x] «e.g.»
* Advertising - Advert.  «e.g.»
* Agriculture or Agricultural - Agric. «e.g.»
* Alliance - All.	«e.g.»
* Alternative - Alt.	«e.g.»
* America or American - Am.  «e.g.»
* And * - & «e.g.»
* Associate - Assoc.  «e.g.»
* Association * - Ass'n  «e.g.»
* Atlantic - Atl.  «e.g.»
* Authority - Auth.  «e.g.»
* Automobile or Automotive - Auto.  «e.g.»
* Avenue - Ave.  «e.g.»
* Bankruptcy - Bankr. «e.g.»
* Board - Bd.  «e.g.»
* Broadcast, Broadcaster, or Broadcasting - Broad.  «e.g.»
* Brotherhood - Bhd. «e.g.»
* Brothers * - Bros.  «e.g.»
* Building - Bldg.  «e.g.»
* Business - Bus.  «e.g.»

C

* Capital - Cap.  «e.g.»
* Casualty - Cas.  «e.g.»
* Catholic - Cath.  «e.g.»
* Center or Centre - Ctr.  «e.g.»
* Central - Cent.  «e.g.»
* Chemical - Chem.  «e.g.»
* Children - Child.  «e.g.»
* Coalition - Coal.  «e.g.»
* College - Coll.  «e.g.»
* Commerce or Commercial - Com.  «e.g.»
* Commission - Comm'n  «e.g.»
* Commissioner - Comm'r «e.g.»
* Committee - Comm.  «e.g.»
* Communication - Commc'n  «e.g.»
* Community - Cmty. «e.g.»
* Company * - Co.  «e.g.»
* Compensation - Comp.  «e.g.»

* Computer - Comput. «e.g.»
* Condominium - Condo.  «e.g.»
* Congress or Congressional - Cong.  «e.g.»
* Consolidated - Consol.  «e.g.»
* Construction - Constr.  «e.g.»
* Continental - Cont'l  «e.g.»
* Contract or Contracting – Cont.  «e.g.»
* Cooperative - Coop.  «e.g.»
* Corporation * - Corp.  «e.g.»
* Correction, Correctional, or Corrections - Corr.  «e.g.»
* County - Cnty.	«e.g.»

D-E

* Defend, Defender, or Defense - Def. «e.g.»
* Department - Dep't  «e.g.»
* Detention - Det.  «e.g.»
* Development - Dev.  «e.g.»
* Digital - Dig.  «e.g.»
* Director - Dir.  «e.g.»
* Distributor or Distributing - Distrib. «e.g.»
* District - Dist. «e.g.»
* Division - Div.  «e.g.»
* Doctor - Dr.  «e.g.»
* East or Eastern - E.  «e.g.»
* Economic, Economical, Economics, or Economy - Econ.  «e.g.»
* Education or Educational - Educ.  «e.g.»
* Electric, Electrical, Electricity, or Electronic - Elec.  «e.g.»
* Employ or Employee - Emp.	«e.g.»
* Employer or Employment - Emp'[r,t]	«e.g.»
* Engineer - Eng'r «e.g.»
* Engineering - Eng'g  «e.g.»
* Enterprise - Enter.  «e.g.»
* Entertainment - Entm't  «e.g.»
* Environment or Environmental - Env't  «e.g.»
* Equality - Equal.  «e.g.»
* Equipment - Equip.  «e.g.»
* Examiner - Exam'r «e.g.»
* Exchange - Exch.  «e.g.»
* Executive - Exec.	«e.g.»
* Executor or Executrix - Ex'[r,x] «e.g.»
* Export, Exportation, or Exporter - Exp.  «e.g.»

F-L

* Federal - Fed.  «e.g.»
* Federation - Fed'n  «e.g.»

* Fidelity - Fid.  «e.g.»
* Finance, Financial, or Financing - Fin.  «e.g.»
* Foundation - Found.  «e.g.»
* General - Gen.  «e.g.»
* Government - Gov't «e.g.»
* Group - Grp.	«e.g.»
* Guaranty - Guar.  «e.g.»
* Hospital - Hosp.
* Housing - Hous.
* Import, Importation, or Importer - Imp.  «e.g.»
* Incorporated * - Inc. «e.g.»
* Indemnity - Indem.  «e.g.»
* Independence or Independent - Indep.  «e.g.»
* Industry, Industries, or Industrial - Indus.  «e.g.»
* Information - Info. «e.g.»
* Injury - Inj.  «e.g.»
* Institute or Institution - Inst.  «e.g.»
* Insurance - Ins. «e.g.»
* Interest - Int.  «e.g.»
* International - Int'l «e.g.»
* Investment or Investor - Inv.  «e.g.»
* Labor or Laboratory - Lab.  «e.g.»
* Liability - Liab.  «e.g.»
* Limited * - Ltd.  «e.g.»
* Litigation - Litig.  «e.g.»


M-O

* Machine or Machinery - Mach.  «e.g.»
* Maintenance - Maint.  «e.g.»
* Management - Mgmt.  «e.g.»
* Manufacturer - Mfr. «e.g.»
* Manufacturing - Mfg.  «e.g.»
* Maritime - Mar.  «e.g.»
* Market - Mkt.  «e.g.»
* Marketing - Mktg. «e.g.»
* Mechanic or Mechanical - Mech.  «e.g.»
* Medical, Medicinal, or Medicine - Med.  «e.g.»
* Memorial - Mem'l  «e.g.»
* Merchant, Merchandise, or Merchandising - Merch. «e.g.»
* Metropolitan - Metro.  «e.g.»
* Mortgage - Mortg.	«e.g.»
* Municipal - Mun.  «e.g.»
* Mutual - Mut.  «e.g.»
* National - Nat'l  «e.g.»
* Natural – Nat.  «e.g.»

* North or Northern - N. «e.g.»
* Northeast or Northeastern - Ne. «e.g.»
* Northwest or Northwestern - Nw. «e.g.»
* Number * - No.  «e.g.»
* Office or Official - Off.	«e.g.»
* Opinion - Op.	«e.g.»
* Order - Ord.	«e.g.»
* Organization or Organizing - Org. «e.g.»

P-R

* Pacific - Pac.  «e.g.»
* Parish - Par.  «e.g.»
* Partnership - P'ship «e.g.»
* Person, Personal, or Personnel - Pers.  «e.g.»
* Pharmaceutics or Pharmaceuticals - Pharm. «e.g.»
* Preserve or Preservation - Pres. «e.g.»
* Probate or Probation - Prob. «e.g.»
* Product or Production - Prod. «e.g.»
* Professional - Prof'l «e.g.»
* Property - Prop. «e.g.»
* Protection - Prot. «e.g.»
* Public - Pub.  «e.g.»
* Publication - Publ'n  «e.g.»
* Publishing - Publ'g  «e.g.»
* Railroad - R.R.  «e.g.»
* Railway - Ry.  «e.g.»
* Record or Recording - Rec.  «e.g.»
* Refining - Ref.  «e.g.»
* Regional - Reg'l  «e.g.»
* Rehabilitation - Rehab.  «e.g.»
* Relation - Rel.  «e.g.»
* Reproduction or Reproductive - Reprod.  «e.g.»
* Research - Rsch.  «e.g.»
* Resource or Resources - Res.  «e.g.»
* Restaurant - Rest.  «e.g.»
* Retirement - Ret.  «e.g.»
* Rights - Rts.  «e.g.»
* Road - Rd.  «e.g.»

S

* Savings - Sav.  «e.g.»
* School or Schools - Sch.  «e.g.»
* Science or Scientific - Sci.  «e.g.»
* Secretary - Sec'y «e.g.»
* Security or Securities - Sec.  «e.g.»

* Service - Serv. «e.g.»
* Shareholder or Stockholder - S'holder «e.g.»
* Social - Soc.  «e.g.»
* Society - Soc'y
* Solution – Sol.
* South or Southern - S.  «e.g.»
* Southeast or Southeastern - Se.  «e.g.»
* Southwest or Southwestern - Sw.  «e.g.»
* Steamship or Steamships - S.S.  «e.g.»
* Street - St.  «e.g.»
* Subcommittee - Subcomm.  «e.g.»
* Surety - Sur.  «e.g.»
* System or Systems - Sys.  «e.g.»

T-Z

* Teacher - Tchr.  «e.g.»
* Technical, Technological, or Technology - Tech.  «e.g.»
* Telecommunication - Telecomm.  «e.g.»
* Telephone or Telegraph - Tel.  «e.g.»
* Temporary - Temp.  «e.g.»
* Township - Twp.  «e.g.»
* Transcontinental - Transcon.  «e.g.»
* Transport or Transportation - Transp. «e.g.»
* Trustee - Tr.  «e.g.»
* Uniform - Unif.  «e.g.»
* United States – U.S.  «e.g.»
* University - Univ.  «e.g.»
* Utility - Util.  «e.g.»
* Village - Vill.  «e.g.»
* West or Western - W.  «e.g.»


* acquiescing - acq.
* affirmed - aff'd
* affirming - aff'g
* certiorari - cert.
* jurisdiction - juris.
* memorandum - mem.
* nonacquiescing - nonacq.
* probable - prob.
* rehearing - reh'g
* reversed - rev'd
* reversing - rev'g



§ 4-300(1) Examples


Principle 1: Omit "the" when used as the first word of a party name

except:

* when part of name of an object subject to in rem proceeding or
* "The King/Queen".

§ 4-300(2) Examples


Principle 2: Omit subsequent actions listed after the first one (when a case consolidates several different actions).

§ 4-300(3) Examples


Principle 3: Omit all parties after the first one listed on each side.

§ 4-300(4) Examples

– In re 123 Court St., 00 N.Y.S.3d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).
not
– In re 123 Court St., Ithaca, New York, the Car, and other chattels, 00 N.Y.S.3d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).– State v. 123 Court St., 00 N.Y.S.3d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).
not
– State v. Property known as 123 Court St., Ithaca, N.Y., 00 N.Y.S.3d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).
Principle 4: In "in rem" cases:

* Omit all items after the first one listed.
* 	Omit all words other than the common street address in "in rem" cases involving real estate.

§ 4-300(5) Examples

– In re Altman, 00 N.Y.S.3d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).
not
– In re Altman on behalf of Harrison, 00 N.Y.S.3d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).– Vizier ex rel. Prince v. Champion, 00 N.Y.S.3d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).
not
– Vizier on behalf of Prince v. Champion, 00 N.Y.S.3d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).– Thomas ex rel. Baldwin v. Sommers, 00 N.Y.S.3d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).
not
– In re Thomas ex rel. Baldwin v. Sommers, 00 N.Y.S.3d 123 (1999) fictional citation).– In re Anita, 00 N.Y.S.3d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).
not
– In the matter of Anita, 00 N.Y.S.3d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).
Principle 5: Treat procedural phrases as follows:

* Omit all procedural phrases other than the first.
* 	Reduce all remaining procedural phrases that are roughly equivalent to "on behalf of" or "for the use of" to ex rel.
* In adversarial proceedings omit all procedural phrases other than ex rel.

* 	Reduce all remaining procedural phrases that are roughly equivalent to "In the matter of," "Petition of," and the like to In re.

§ 4-300(6) Examples

– Smith v. Jones, 00 N.Y.S.3d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).
not
– Smith v. Jones, Executor, 00 N.Y.S.3d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).
Principle 6: Omit terms like "trustee," "executor," or "administrator" that described a named party.

§ 4-300(7) Examples

– Dukakis v. Massachusetts, 00 U.S. 123 (1999) (fictional citation).
not
– Dukakis v. Commonwealth of Massachusetts, 00 U.S. 123 (1999) (fictional citation).– Dukakis v. Commonwealth, 00 Mass. 123, 00 N.E.2d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).
not
– Dukakis v. Massachusetts, 00 Mass. 123, 00 N.E.2d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).
Principle 7: Omit "State of" or its equivalents

except: when citing decisions of the courts of the state in question, in which case omit the name of the state instead and keep "State" or the equivalent term.

§ 4-300(8) Examples

– Angelo v. Common Council of Syracuse, 00 N.Y.3d 123, 00 N.E.2d 123, 00 N.Y.S.2d
123 (1999) (fictional citation).
not
– Angelo v. Common Council of City of Syracuse, 00 N.Y.3d 123, 00 N.E.2d 123, 00
N.Y.S.2d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).– Tarson v. City of Syracuse Dept. of Pub. Works, 00 N.Y.3d 123, 00 N.E.2d 123, 00 N.Y.S.2d 123 (1999) (fictional citation).
not
– Tarson v. Syracuse Dept. of Pub. Works, 00 N.Y.3d 123, 00 N.E.2d 123, 00 N.Y.S.2d
123 (1999) (fictional citation).
Principle 8: Omit "City of" or its equivalents

except: when the phrase begins a party name.

§ 4-300(9) Examples


Principle 9: Omit all locational phrases

except:

* those left following application of the prior rule about "City of" or
* when the omission would leave only one word in the name.

§ 4-300(10) Examples


Principle 10: Omit "of America" after "United States".

§ 4-300(11) Examples


Principle 11: Omit first and middle names or initials of individuals

except:

* when included in the name of a business
* when the party's surname is abbreviated
* when the party's given name follows the surname (as is true of Chinese, Korean and Vietnamese names, for example).

§ 4-300(12) Examples


Principle 12: Omit "Inc.," "Ltd.," "N.A.," or "F.S.B.," and similar terms if the name also contains words like "Co.," "Corp.," "R.R.," "Bros.," or "Ass'n" that indicate a business firm.



Supreme Court: «e.g.»

Courts of Appeals: «e.g.»

District Courts: «e.g.»

Other: «e.g.»

§ 4-420. Reporter and Court Abbreviations – The States and D.C.	

All fifty states: «e.g.»


* Alabama - Ala.  «e.g.»
* Alaska - Alaska «e.g.»
* Arizona - Ariz. «e.g.»
* Arkansas - Ark. «e.g.»
* California - Cal.  «e.g.»
* Colorado - Colo.  «e.g.»
* Connecticut - Conn.  «e.g.»
* Delaware - Del.  «e.g.»
* District of Columbia - D.C. «e.g.»
* Florida - Fla.  «e.g.»
* Georgia - Ga.  «e.g.»
* Hawaii - Haw.  «e.g.»
* Idaho - Idaho  «e.g.»
* Illinois - Ill.  «e.g.»
* Indiana - Ind.  «e.g.»
* Iowa - Iowa «e.g.»
* Kansas - Kan.  «e.g.»
* Kentucky - Ky.  «e.g.»
* Louisiana - La.  «e.g.»
* Maine - Me.  «e.g.»
* Maryland - Md. «e.g.»
* Massachusetts - Mass. «e.g.»
* Michigan - Mich.  «e.g.»
* Minnesota - Minn.  «e.g.»
* Mississippi - Miss. «e.g.»
* Missouri - Mo.  «e.g.»
* Montana - Mont.  «e.g.»
* Nebraska - Neb.  «e.g.»
* Nevada - Nev.  «e.g.»
* New Hampshire - N.H.  «e.g.»
* New Jersey - N.J.  «e.g.»
* New Mexico - N.M. «e.g.»
* New York - N.Y. «e.g.»
* North Carolina - N.C. «e.g.»
* North Dakota - N.D.  «e.g.»
* Ohio - Ohio  «e.g.»
* Oklahoma - Okla.  «e.g.»
* Oregon - Or. «e.g.»
* Pennsylvania - Pa. «e.g.»
* Rhode Island - R.I. «e.g.»
* South Carolina - S.C.  «e.g.»
* South Dakota - S.D.  «e.g.»
* Tennessee - Tenn.  «e.g.»
* Texas - Tex.  «e.g.»
* Utah - Utah  «e.g.»
* Vermont - Vt.  «e.g.»

* Virginia - Va.  «e.g.»
* Washington - Wash.  «e.g.»
* West Virginia - W. Va.  «e.g.»
* Wisconsin - Wis.  «e.g.»
* Wyoming - Wyo.  «e.g.»


* January - Jan.
* February - Feb.
* March - Mar.
* April - Apr.
* May - May
* June - June
* July - July
* August - Aug.
* September - Sept.
* October - Oct.
* November - Nov.
* December - Dec.


* Boston University Law Review - B.U. L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* Buffalo Law Review - Buff. L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* California Law Review - Cal. L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* Case Western Reserve Law Review - Case W. Res. L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* Columbia Law Review - Colum. L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* Cornell Law Review - Cornell L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* Duke Law Journal - Duke L.J.  «e.g.»
* Fordham Law Review - Fordham L. Rev. «e.g.»
* Georgetown Law Journal - Geo. L.J. «e.g.»
* George Washington Law Review - Geo. Wash. L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* Harvard Law Review - Harv. L. Rev. «e.g.»
* Howard Law Journal - How. L.J. «e.g.»
* Michigan Law Review - Mich. L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* Minnesota Law Review - Minn. L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* New York University Law Review - N.Y.U. L. Rev. «e.g.»
* Ohio State Law Journal - Ohio St. L.J.  «e.g.»
* Rutgers Law Review - Rutgers L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* Seton Hall Law Review - Seton Hall L. Rev. «e.g.»
* Stanford Law Review - Stan. L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* Supreme Court Review - Sup. Ct. Rev.  «e.g.»
* Temple Law Review - Temp. L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* Texas Law Review - Tex. L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* UCLA Law Review - UCLA L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* University of Chicago Law Review - U. Chi. L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* University of Pennsylvania Law Review - U. Pa. L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* Vanderbilt Law Review - Vand. L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* Virginia Law Review - Va. L. Rev. «e.g.»
* Washington University Law Quarterly - Wash. U. L.Q.  «e.g.»
* Wisconsin Law Review - Wis. L. Rev.  «e.g.»
* Yale Law Journal - Yale L.J.   «e.g.»



§ 4-810(1) Examples


Principle 1: Successive words abbreviated with a single capital letter are normally not separated from one another with a space.

Principle 2: Longer abbreviations are separated from one another and from single letter abbreviations with a space.

Principle 3: In journal titles, successive single letters that refer to an entity are separated from other single letter abbreviations with a space.

Principle 4: Numbers, including ordinal numbers (2d, 4th), are treated as single letters.

A Point of Difference in Modern Citation Practice: All spaces are treated as word separators by the major word processing programs. With a brief or similar filing that is in danger of exceeding the applicable word count limit set out in court rules, it is not uncommon for an attorney to remove the spaces separating elements of a reporter's name or even those of the court's name. Each space removed reduces the word count by one. (See How many words is a citation?, Citing Legally, https://citeblog.access-to-law.com/?p=1048.)


§ 4-820(1) Examples

– David A.J. Richards, Originalism Without Foundations, 65 N.Y.U.L.Rev. 1373 (1990)(reviewing Robert Bork, The Tempting of America: The Political Seduction of the Law). – Orange Cnty. Agric. Soc'y, Inc. v. Comm'r, 893 F.2d 529 (2d Cir. 1990).– Natural Res.Def. Council v. NRC, 216 F.3d 1180 (D.C.Cir. 2000).
Principle 1: In general abbreviations should end in a period.

Principle 2: However, abbreviations that are contractions ending with an apostrophe and the last letter of the word should not be followed by a period.

Principle 3: In addition, entities that are commonly referred to by their initials may be abbreviated using those initials without periods.


The most frequently cited and their abbreviations are:

* Affidavit - Aff.
* Answer - Answer
* Brief - Br.
* Complaint - Compl.
* Court - Ct.
* Declaration - Decl.
* Defendant - Def.
* Deposition - Dep.
* Discovery - Disc.
* Document - Doc.
* Exhibit - Ex.
* Hearing - Hr'g
* Interrogatory - Interrog.
* Memorandum - Mem.
* Motion - Mot.
* Opinion - Op.
* Petition - Pet.
* Plaintiff - Pl.
* Record - R.
* Transcript - Tr.

§ 5-000. UNDERLINING AND ITALICS [BB|ALWD] Contents | Index | Help | < | >

When briefs and memoranda were prepared on typewriters, emphasized text was underlined. While older citation reference works may still call for underlining, that format has largely been replaced by the use of italics, made possible by word-processing software and modern printers.


The following citation elements should be italicized:

* case names (including procedural phrases)
* book titles
* titles of journal articles
* introductory signals used in citation sentences or clauses
* prior or subsequent history explanatory phrases
* words or phrases attributing one cited authority to another source
* the cross reference words: "id.," "supra," and "infra"

If underlining is used instead of italics it should continue under successive words that are part of the same phrase but break between items. When "e.g." appears with another signal the two together are treated as a single item. Punctuation that is part of any of the above elements is italicized along with it, but punctuation that separates that element from other parts of the citation should not be.


The following words or phrases should be italicized when they appear in the text of a brief or legal memorandum:

* 	references to titles or case names in the text without full citation (even those which would, in full citation, not be underlined)
* foreign words that have not been assimilated into lawyer jargon
* quoted words that were italicized in the original
* emphasized words



The following citation types or elements should not be italicized:

* constitutions
* statutes
* restatements
* names of reporters and services
* names of journals
* rules
* regulations
* other administrative materials

Indeed, all items for which italics is not specified should appear without it.

§ 6-000. PLACING CITATIONS IN CONTEXT Contents | Index | Help | < | >


Whenever a specific passage of a work speaks directly and authoritatively to the point for which you cite it, the critical language should be quoted. Indeed, rules of appellate procedure often require that. The U.S. Supreme Court's rule on this point is representative. It specifies that the front matter of any brief on the merits include:

The constitutional provisions, treaties, statutes, ordinances, and regulations involved in the case, set out verbatim with appropriate citation. If the provisions involved are lengthy, their citation alone suffices at this point, and their pertinent text, if not already set out in the petition for a writ of certiorari, jurisdictional statement, or an appendix to either document, shall be set out in an appendix to the brief.

Sup. Ct. R. 24(f).

Principle 1: Short quotations (fewer than 50 words) are generally enclosed in quotation marks «e.g.». Any quotation marks within such a quote are converted to a single mark (').

Principle 2: Longer quotations (50 words or more) and shorter quotations to which the author wishes to give special emphasis are set off from the text by being indented both right and left (without quotation marks) «e.g.».

Principle 3: Both forms of quotation are followed immediately by a citation to the quoted work. (With an indented quotation the citation is not part of the indented material, but begins flush with the left margin «e.g.».) When the quoted work itself includes a quotation, that quotation should if possible be attributed to the original work in a parenthetical clause. And when that quotation shows alterations or omissions that should be indicated with the parenthetical clause "(alteration in original)".

Principle 4: Changes to a quoted work are shown with square brackets and ellipses (" . . . ")
«e.g.». When omitted material comes at the beginning of a quotation the omission is shown by capitalizing the first letter of the first quoted word and placing that letter in brackets rather than with ellipses. Changes in emphasis and omissions of citations or footnotes are indicated by parenthetical clauses.


Principle 1: While footnote citation is the norm for law journal and treatise writing, citations in memoranda, briefs, and judicial opinions are more commonly integrated with the text
«e.g.». Further as more and more readers have taken to viewing these forms of professional writing on electronic devices, many with screens that hold less than a conventional printed page, the comparative utility of having citations immediately adjacent to the text they support has grown.

Principle 2: Under most circumstances citations should take the form of citation sentences, beginning with capital letters and ending with periods, directly following the sentence they

support or the quotation they identify «e.g.». When a citation or citations relate to a portion of a sentence they should be embedded in the sentence as a citation clause, set off by commas, directly following that portion «e.g.».

Principle 3: Multiple citations whether within a citation sentence or a citation clause are set off from one another with semi-colons «e.g.».


Citing an authority without any preceding word to clarify or qualify its connection to the text represents that the citation directly states the proposition or identifies a quotation or authority with which the citation is associated «e.g.». There is a standard set of clarifying or qualifying words used with citations. Placed in front of a citation these words are italicized (or underlined). When instead they form the verb of a sentence that includes the citation they are not italicized (or underlined). No comma separates the signal from the rest of the citation, except for "e.g." which needs a comma before and after it. Only the signal beginning a citation sentence has its initial letter capitalized. The standard clarifying or qualifying words include:

(a) Signals that indicate support.
* E.g.,
o Authority states the proposition with which the citation is associated. Other authorities, not cited, do as well «e.g.». "E.g." used with other signals (in which case it is preceded by a comma) similarly indicates the existence of other authorities not cited.
* Accord
o Used following citation to authority referred to in text when there are additional authorities that either state or clearly support the proposition with which the citation is associated, but the text quotes only one. Similarly, the law of one jurisdiction may be cited as being in accord with that of another «e.g.».
* See
o Authority supports the proposition with which the citation is associated either implicitly or in the form of dicta «e.g.».
* See also
o Authority is additional support for the proposition with which the citation is associated (but less direct than that indicated by "see" or "accord"). "See also" is commonly used to refer readers to authorities already cited or discussed
«e.g.». The use of a parenthetical explanation of the source material's relevance following a citation introduced by "see also" is encouraged.

* Cf.


o Authority supports by analogy "Cf." literally means "compare." The citation will only appear relevant to the reader if it is explained. Consequently, parenthetical explanations of the analogy are strongly recommended «e.g.».

(b) Signals that suggest a useful comparison.
* Compare ... with ...
o Comparison of authorities that supports proposition. Either side of the comparison can have more than one item linked with "and" «e.g.». Parenthetical explanations of comparison are strongly recommended.
(c) Signals that indicate contradiction.
* Contra
o Authority directly states the contrary of the proposition with which the citation is associated «e.g.».
* But see
o Authority clearly supports the contrary of the proposition with which citation is associated «e.g.».
* But cf.
o Authority supports the contrary of the position with which the citation is associated by analogy. Parenthetical explanations of the analogy are strongly recommended. The word "but" is omitted from the signal when it follows another negative signal «e.g.».
(d) Signals that indicate background material.
* See generally
o Authority presents useful background. Parenthetical explanations of the source materials' relevance are encouraged «e.g.».
(e) Combining a signal with "e.g."
* E.g.,
o In addition to the cited authority, there are numerous others that state, support, or contradict the proposition (with the other signal indicating which) but citation to them would not be helpful or necessary. The preceding signal is separated from "e.g." by a comma «e.g.».



Sometimes multiple citations or "strings" are necessary.

Principle 1: When a series of citations includes material grouped after more than one signal, the signals should appear in the order in which they are listed in § 6-300.

Principle 2: Section 6-300 breaks signals (and their references) into four different "types": (a) supportive; (b) comparative; (c) contradictory; and (d) background. Signals of the same type must be strung together within a single citation sentence and separated by semicolons. Signals of different types should be grouped in different citation sentences. In other words, a period should end the string of authorities indicating support, and any authorities in contradiction, preceded by the appropriate signal, should follow in a separate citation sentence. The ALWD Guide to Legal Citation allows all to be contained in a single sentence with only a semicolon separating the four different categories and their signals.

Principle 3: When more than one citation is preceded by the same signal, the citations should be arranged by their relative authority on the point for which they are cited within the pertinent jurisdiction, their recency, or some similar logical order. If the writing concerns the law of a particular state, citations to the constitution, statutes, cases, and regulations of that state should, usually, precede the rest.

Reflecting its academic focus, until its most recent revision The Bluebook called for the circuits of the U.S. Court of Appeals to be treated as a single court for this purpose and for the different districts of the U.S. District Courts to be lumped together as well. There are many practice situations where this approach is inappropriate. In a brief to the Second Circuit of the
U.S. Courts of Appeals or a U.S. District Court on which its decisions are binding, decisions of that circuit should be treated as one court, while those of other circuits can reasonably be merged together as those of a single court. Indeed, the academic approach, as applied to courts with subunits, is inappropriate in any context where decisions of all those circuits or districts or divisions do not carry the same precedential weight.

Unless some other order seems indicated, commentary sources can logically be grouped by type in the following order:

* books (arranged alphabetically by last name of author)
* journal articles (arranged alphabetically by last name of author)



Principle: Once a full citation to a case, statute, regulation, book or journal article has been provided, subsequent references within the same discussion can be less complete. The less complete or "short form" citation must clearly identify the referenced work. Short form citations should only be used where the reader will find it easy to return to the full citation.

Short form examples:

* Cases
* Constitutions and Statutes
* Regulations
* Books
* Journal Articles

§ 6-520. Short Form Citations - Cases	

Full Citation

Brown v. Helvering, 291 U.S. 193, 203 (1934).

Short Form Citations

Brown, 291 U.S. at 203.

291 U.S. at 203.

Id. at 203.

The short form should include an identifiable portion of the case name unless it appears in the passage supported by the citation or it follows immediately after the full citation so that use of "id." is appropriate.



Full Citation

Opticians Ass'n of Am. v. Ind. Opticians of Am., 920 F.2d 187 (3d Cir. 1990).

Short Form Citation

Opticians Ass'n, 920 F.2d at 187.



Full Citation

United States v. Wilson, 503 U.S. 329 (1992).

Short Form Citation

Wilson, 503 U.S. at 334-36. not:
United States, 503 U.S. at 334-36

Do NOT use the name of a governmental or other common litigant as the short form name.



Full Citation

Hansen v. Ohio Cas. Ins. Co., 239 Conn. 549, 687 A.2d 1262 (1995).

Short Form Citation

Hansen, 239 Conn. at 551, 687 A.2d at 1269.

239 Conn. at 551, 687 A.2d at 1269.

Id. at 551, 687 A.2d at 1269.

In cases of parallel citation include both in the short form.

§ 6-530. Short Form Citations - Constitutions and Statutes	

Full Citation

U.S. Const. art. III, § 2, cl. 2.

Short Form Citation

Id.



Full Citation

Narcotics Penalties and Enforcement Act of 1986, Pub. L. No. 99-570, § 1002, 100 Stat. 3207-2 (1986).

Short Form Citations

§ 1002.

Narcotics Penalties and Enforcement Act § 1002.

§ 1002, 100 Stat. 3207-2.



Full Citation

42 U.S.C. § 405(c)(2)(C) (2014).

Short Form Citations

42 U.S.C. § 405(c)(2)(C).

§ 405(c)(2)(C).



Full Citation

Vt. Stat. tit. 9A, § 1-101 (2014).

Short Form Citations

Title 9A, § 1-101.

§ 1-101.



Full Citation

H.R. 3957, 101st Cong., 2d Sess. 2 (1990).

Short Form Citation

H.R. 3957.

§ 6-540. Short Form Citations - Regulations	

Full Citation

46 C.F.R. § 292 (2014).

Short Form Citations

46 C.F.R. § 292.

§ 292.



Full Citation

Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Occupant Crash Protection, 57 Fed. Reg. 26,609 (1992).

Short Form Citation

Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards, 57 Fed. Reg. 26,609.

§ 6-550. Short Form Citations – Books	

Full Citation

E. Allen Farnsworth, Contracts § 9.3 (1982).

Short Form Citations

Id.

Id. § 9.4.

Use supra if not referring to the immediately preceding authority.



Full Citation

Henry Julian Abraham, Justices, Presidents and Senators 390-95 (5th ed. 2008).

Short Form Citations

Abraham, supra. Abraham, supra at 390.
Use id. if the authority is the same as the immediately preceding authority. Use supra if not referring to the immediately preceding authority.

§ 6-560. Short Form Citations - Journal Articles	

Full Citation

Stephen J. Legatzke, Note, The Equitable Recoupment Doctrine in United States v. Dalm:
Where's the Equity, 10 Va. Tax Rev. 861 (1991).

Short Form Citations

Id.

Id. at 862. Legatzke, supra.
Legatzke, supra at 862.

Use id. if the authority is the same as the immediately preceding authority. Use supra if not referring to the immediately preceding authority.




Adapted from Respondent's Brief, Int'l Soc'y for Krishna Consciousness, Inc. v. Lee, 505 U.S. 672 (1992).

Since the 1974 decision in Lehman v. City of Shaker Heights, 418 U.S. 298 (1974), this Court has relied upon public forum analysis to decide cases in which persons have sought to use government property for expressive activity in violation of rules which restrict or prohibit such activity. See United States v. Kokinda, 497 U.S. 720, 725 (1990).

This Court has held that a site owned by the government is a traditional public forum only if it is among "those places which 'by long tradition or by government fiat have been devoted to assembly and debate."' Cornelius, 473 U.S. at 802, quoting, Perry Educ. Ass'n, 460 U.S. at 45. This description hearkens back to the often-quoted passage from Hague v. CIO, 307 U.S. 496 (1939):

Wherever the title of streets and parks may rest, they have immemorially been held in trust for the use of the public and, time out of mind, have been used for purposes of assembly, communicating thoughts between citizens, and discussing public questions. Such use of the streets and public places has, from ancient times, been a part of the privileges, immunities, rights, and liberties of citizens.

Id. at 515.

The Port Authority airports' sole purpose of facilitating air travel is reflected in all of their characteristics - planning, operation, design, usage, financing, lack of integration with neighboring communities, presence of captive audiences, and unique congestion and security problems. These characteristics both attest to the special purpose of the Port Authority air terminals and distinguish them from traditional public fora. In previous cases, this Court has examined the nature of alleged public fora to determine their public forum status. See, e.g., Kokinda, 497 U.S. 720; Greer, 424 U.S. 824; Lehman, 418 U.S. 298 .

4. Captive Audiences

The presence of captive audiences in air terminals distinguish such terminals from the traditional public fora of streets and parks. Captive audiences exist throughout the air terminals – at enplaning and deplaning points, at ticket counters, security checkpoints, baggage conveyor belts, and car rental and other ground transportation counters. At all of these locations, travelers tend to remain in place in order to complete travel-related tasks (Superintendent's Statement at 58-60 (JA 458); Anderson Affidavit at 9 (JA 488)). See Doughty, supra note 13, at 7. As noted by Justice Douglas with regard to the patrons of public transportation vehicles, the rights of such captive audiences "to be free from forced intrusions on their privacy" would be violated if they were forced to be the object of uninvited persuasion. Lehman, 418 U.S. at 307 (1974) (Douglas, J., concurring); cf. Consolidated Edison Co. of N.Y. v. Public Serv. Comm'n, 447 U.S. 530, 542 (1980).

This Court has explicitly stated that a public forum does not exist merely because persons are freely permitted to enter a government owned site. Indeed, the Court has ". . . expressly rejected the suggestion that 'whenever members of the public are permitted freely to visit a place owned or operated by the Government, then that place becomes a "public forum" for purposes of the First Amendment.'" United States v. Albertini, 472 U.S. 675, 686 (1985) (quoting Greer, 424 U.S. at 836); see also United States v. Grace, 461 U.S. 171, 177 (1983).

Finally, it is equally clear that the usefulness of government property as a site for expressive activity does not make such property a traditional public forum under applicable Supreme Court precedent. In Members of the City Council v. Taxpayers for Vincent, 466 U.S. 789 (1984), which held that lampposts are not public fora for the posting of signs, this Court rejected in unequivocal terms the proposition that a publicly-owned facility is a public forum because it would be a useful place for the communication of ideas: "Lampposts can of course be used as signposts, but the mere fact that government property can be used as a vehicle for communication does not mean that the Constitution requires such uses to be permitted. Cf.
United States Postal Serv. v. Greenburgh Civic Ass'ns, 453 U.S. at 131." Id. at 814 (footnote omitted); see also Albertini, 472 U.S. at 686; Greer, 424 U.S. at 838 n.10.

Plaintiffs' reference to the alleged decline of downtown street life by the development of skyways and other street alternatives in city centers is clearly irrelevant to the issue at bar. The merits or demerits of such developments should be debated by planning commissions or zoning boards who determine the nature of our cities. See, e.g., William H. Whyte, City 193- 221 (1988). Any perceived failure of responsible planning bodies to foster the development of urban streetscapes provides no basis for holding that the Port Authority air terminals are public fora.

Second, the alleged role of rail terminals as public fora is irrelevant because rail terminals, unlike Port Authority air terminals, are located in the center of a city. If the concourse of Grand Central Station or the waiting room of a small town rail depot served as a meeting place for people going about their daily business, it was because the rest of the community was a sidewalk's width away. See H. Roger Grant & Charles H. Bohi, The Country Railroad Station in America 8-9 (1978); William D. Middleton, Grand Central 109 (1978). Clearly, the same is not true of the Port Authority's air terminals. Although two people in Midtown Manhattan might agree to meet "under the golden clock" of Grand Central Terminal whether or not they were going to take a train, see William D. Middleton, Grand Central 109 (1978), it is highly unlikely that two people who had no intention of taking air flights would agree to meet at any of the Port Authority airports.

Moreover, contrary to Plaintiff's assertions, as an historical matter, it is far from clear that rail stations and terminals served as public fora in the First Amendment sense. Plaintiffs fail to document that solicitation and distribution of literature actually occurred at railroad terminals. Plaintiffs also ignore the fact that railroad terminals were privately owned, and, therefore, any solicitation or distribution of literature which took place was at the pleasure of the private entities which owned the terminals. See generally United Transp. Union v. Long Island R.R., 455 U.S. 678, 686 (1982); H. Roger Grant & Charles H. Bohi, The Country Railroad Station in America 11-15 (1978).(22)

The distribution of literature has similar effects on pedestrian flow. Air passengers must alter their path to avoid the distributor, or pause to take literature and perhaps stop to read it or to throw it in a wastebin. Significantly, Plaintiff's themselves concede that "literature distribution
. . . might well be as disruptive to a traveller 'hurrying to catch a plane or to arrange ground transportation' as a request for a voluntary donation." Petition for Writ of Certiorari at 22 (citation omitted). And, of course, if Plaintiffs were entitled to engage in such activity, others would have the right to do so as well. As noted by this Court in Heffron v. ISKCON, "The inquiry must not only involve ISKCON, but all other organizations that would be entitled to distribute, sell or solicit if the . . . rule may not be enforced with respect to ISKCON." 452
U.S. 640, 654 (1981); accord Clark v. Community for Creative Non-Violence, 468 U.S. 288,
296-97 (1984).

It is well established that even in a public forum, the government is not powerless to regulate First Amendment activity. Although it is true that all communication may not be excluded from a public forum, content-neutral regulations may be enforced if they are reasonable and narrowly tailored to serve significant governmental interests, and leave open ample alternative channels of communication. E.g., Perry Educ. Ass'n v. Perry Local Educators' Ass'n, 460
U.S. at 46; Clark, 468 U.S. at 293. The Port Authority's restriction of solicitation and distribution of literature to sidewalks adjacent to air terminal buildings satisfies this test.

Adapted from Children of Bedford, Inc. v. Petromelis, 77 N.Y.2d 713, 726-727, 573
N.E.2d 541, 553, 570 N.Y.S.2d 453, 464 (1991), vacated, 112 S.Ct. 859 (1991).

If the only purpose of section 632-a was to compensate victims, however, petitioners' contention that the State's needs could be met by other, less burdensome means would be more persuasive. Manifestly, article 22 and the general civil procedures address that need. Section 632-a provides not only a method for victims to obtain compensation, however, it also meets other compelling governmental interests. First, it preserves the victim's equitable right to assets earned by a criminal as a result of the victimization. Compare Executive Law 631 with 632-a. If there is no victim a necessary requirement for implementation of the statute is lacking, section 632-a does not apply and the criminal may discuss the crime without restraint. E.g., compare Halmi v. Crime Victims Bd., N.Y. L.J., June 5, 1986, at 12 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. June 4 1986), aff'd, 128 A.D.2d 411 (prostitution is victimless crime) and St. Martins Press v. Zweibel, N.Y. L.J., Feb. 26, 1990, at 25 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. Feb. 24, 1990) (securities fraud based on leaking market information) with Simon & Schuster v. Fischetti, 916 F.2d 777 (2d. Cir. 1991) and this case. But if there are victims and the criminal profits from reenactment or depiction of the crime, then the victims who have been injured by the criminal act, and the State, which has been called upon to render aid to those victims, should have the first claim to that money. They should be compensated before the criminal.

Adapted from McCann v. Scaduto, 71 N.Y.2d 164, 182-183, 519 N.E.2d 309, 326, 524
N.Y.S.2d 398, 416-417 (1987).

We reject the above arguments for the Secretary's exercise of an interim rate authority essentially for the same reasons that the court below rejected them. The Natural Gas Act, like most modern ratemaking statutes, provides for a plenary ratemaking authority and vests in it one body, there, the Federal Power Commission. As the Supreme Court held in Tennessee

Gas, an interim authority follows naturally from a plenary authority under the usual "necessary and proper" clause. What the government has failed to understand in urging upon us a similar argument in the present case is that such a holding necessarily depends upon the existence of a plenary authority. In this case the rate developer has none; the scheme set out in section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 divides rate authority and vests it in two separate branches of the government. The government's suggested approach assumes the validity of their conclusion even before the process of deduction has begun. But see Montana Power Co.
v. Edwards, 531 F. Supp. 8 (D. Or. 1981) (adopting the approach attacked in this paragraph); Pacific Power & Light Co. v. Duncan, 499 F. Supp. 672 (D. Or. 1980) (same); cf. Colorado River Energy Distribs. Ass'n v. Lewis, 516 F. Supp. 926 (D.D.C. 1981) (correctly relying on Tennessee Gas in hydroelectric ratemaking case under section 9(c) of the Reclamation Project Act of 1939, 43 U.S.C. § 485h(c) (1976), which gives the Secretary plenary authority). To resolve this case, we are forced to examine the substantive provisions of the Flood Control and DOE Acts, which we have done in the first three Parts of this opinion.

Adapted from Respondent's Brief, United States v. Navajo Nation, No. 01-1375 (Oct. 9, 2002)

A. The Ideal of Tribal Self-Determination Does Not Dilute Trust Duties.

In the space of 20 pages, the Government's brief transforms the modern federal policy favoring tribal self-determination from a supposed "focus" of IMLA to its "central aim." See Pet. Br. 18, 19, 20, 38. Contra Kerr-McGee, 471 U.S. at 200. It repeatedly offers, never with any citation to authority, that the historic requirement of federal approval of Indian land transactions is merely to give "backstop protection" to the tribes, whatever that might be. E.g., Pet. Br. 18, 43, 49. Contra Tuscarora, 362 U.S. at 118-19; Sunderland, 266 U.S. at 234. The Government unsuccessfully asserted in Mitchell II that the federal policy favoring Indian self- determination compromises trust duties. See Brief for the United States, No. 81-1748, at 35.
That argument has gained no force in the intervening 20 years.




Most rules of appellate procedure require that briefs contain a table of authorities following their table of contents, with a notation of the page or pages at which each is cited. Some also specify the order in which those authorities are to be listed, e.g., cases in alphabetical
order. The table should be organized by category of authority.

Less widespread but present in the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure and a number of state counterparts is the requirement that “If the court's determination of the issues presented requires the study of statutes, rules, regulations, etc., the relevant parts must be set out in the brief or in an addendum at the end, or may be supplied to the court in pamphlet form.” Fed. R. App. P. 28(f).

§ 7-000. CROSS REFERENCE TABLES Contents | Index | Help | < | >
§ 7-100. Introduction	

The principles and practices described in this Introduction to Basic Legal Citation are elaborated in far greater specificity (and with differences noted throughout this work) in two citation references widely used in U.S. law schools.

This concluding segment contains a set of point by point cross-references to those books. Tables set out in subsequent sections have been designed to enable users of this introduction to find the relevant treatment of each citation principle or category of material covered here in either The Bluebook (§ 7-300) or the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation (§ 7-400), whichever they are working from.

In addition, because the current Bluebook is but the latest in a long succession of editions, it being the nineteenth, this segment offers an inventory of the more recent changes of significance. See § 7-200.

A concluding table (§ 7-500) furnishes state by state access to citation examples of the three most frequently cited categories of primary law material – cases, statutes, and regulations – noting those points on which the norms and practice of each state diverge from the prescriptions of the "national" guides.






21st edition	

Prior editions specified a rigid (and often inappropriate) order for the placement of citations preceded by the same signal. That rigidity has been replaced by the instruction to array such citations logically, in accordance with their weight as authority.

The insistence on citation to "official" versions of the U.S.Code, state statutes, and local ordinances has been relaxed in light of the wide-spread reliance on online versions. Strangely, while removing the related insistence that a date for the version of the U.S. Code relied upon be furnished, the edition contains no similar relaxation for state statutes.

Most lawyers have long been aware that citations can count heavily against word limits imposed on briefs and similar legal writing by contemporary procedural rules. As most word processing algorithms count words, any character or clump of characters separated from another by a space is logged as a fresh word. When words are at a premium, this adds to the incentive to employ short-form citations. It can also change a writer's perspective on spaces inserted in abbreviations to provide visual separation. Acknowledging this reality The Bluebook now authorizes the elimination of such spaces in reporter names. "F. Supp. 3d" can be compressed to "F.Supp.3d" (one word instead of three). The option is offered to lawyers writing briefs but not to authors of law journal articles. Strangely, the approach is not extended to abbreviations that identify the deciding court. According to The Bluebook "C.D. Cal." must still add two words to the total count, "S.D.N.Y." but one. (See How many words is a citation?, Citing Legally, https://citeblog.access-to-law.com/?p=1048.)

The most visible change in the 21st edition is the reduction in bulk. This edition is 195 pages shorter than the 20th. Most of the missing pages contained tables governing citation of non-
U.S. legal materials. They have, quite sensibly, been moved online. (See The Bluebook's 2020 Weight Loss Program – Remove All Foreign Citations, Citing Legally, https://citeblog.access- to-law.com/?p=1060.)

The edition's most problematic change is its merger of the tables containing abbreviation for words appearing in very different contexts: case names, institutional author names, and journal titles. The benefits are minimal; the costs, substantial. The merged table contains unnecessary and confusing case name abbreviations, abbreviations for words that rarely appear in case names, and new abbreviations for intuitive and well established ones. (See The Bluebook's 2020 Weight Loss Program – Part Two: The Merger of Tables T6 and T13.2, Citing Legally, https://citeblog.access-to-law.com/?p=1074.)

20th edition	

Most of the changes in the twentieth edition concerned sources and issues that rarely figure in the writing of lawyers and judges, e.g., the citing of social media, opinion pieces in newspapers, or comments to proposed regulations. And the bulk of its expansion (9.6% growth over the prior edition) occurred in the table specifying how to cite foreign sources (T2). By contrast, the edition shaved off seventeen pages by dropping the prior table of abbreviations for the most frequently cited English language periodicals. It has been replaced by multiple tables (institutions, common words, geographical terms) and a set of principles on how to construct a journal abbreviation from them.

The centrality of digital sources to contemporary legal research prompted a number of changes. No longer need some parallel citations to online resources be preceded by the phrase “available at”. Citation to online editions of newspapers are acceptable, and citations to the major online law dictionaries need not specify a page number but simply state the term or phrase defined. Notwithstanding these incremental shifts, The Bluebook's approach to when and how to specify the use of an electronic source remains inconsistent. (See The Bluebook's Inconsistency about When to Identify an Electronic Source, Citing Legally, http://citeblog.access-to-law.com/?p=404.) Continuing references to the “title page” of periodicals and treatises, which fewer and fewer researchers consult in a form that has one, betray the distance between the law review editors responsible for The Bluebook and the realities of twenty-first century law practice.

In an unfortunate concession to the interests of the entities sponsoring creation and publication of restatements, uniform codes, and model laws, the new edition would require that citations to such works identify the source. (See Bluebook (20th ed.) and Restatements, Model Codes, etc., Citing Legally, http://citeblog.access-to-law.com/?p=461.)

19th edition	

The nineteenth edition made even fewer significant changes than its immediate predecessor. The “Bluepages,” the sole title now given the introductory material introduced in the eighteenth, and accompanying tables expanded from forty-three pages to fifty-one. Expansion and elaboration occurred throughout, most notably in the concluding set of tables (which comprise over half the volume). They grew by nearly forty percent. The bulk of that growth was concentrated in T2's coverage of foreign jurisdictions, from the Argentine Republic to the Republic of Zambia.

Electronic Media

Finally acknowledging that the Internet has for many types of legal material supplanted print distribution, The Bluebook now sanctions citation to electronic documents obtained from reliable online sources "as if they were the original print," permitting the omission of URL information in such cases.

18th edition	

The Bluebook's eighteenth edition made few changes of substance. The book's format was revised; numerous rules were clarified; the treatment of foreign and international materials was expanded; and the tables were both added to and extended. The Bluebook continues to deal predominantly with the citation needs and norms of law journal writing. However, the material previously relegated to nineteen pages of "practitioner notes" has, in this latest edition, been expanded into a first section entitled "An Introduction to Basic Legal Citation" (this work's title since its release in 1993). That section is accompanied by a new set of tables furnishing references to local (jurisdiction-specific) citation rules and style guides, information that has been included in the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation from the start.

Electronic Media

The Bluebook's coverage of Internet-based material significantly expanded and rationalized. While the seventeenth edition divided Internet citations into three categories, the eighteenth reduced the number to two – direct citations of material accessible only online and parallel citations furnished to facilitate access to material distributed in print, but not widely available in that form.

17th edition	

Introductory Signals

The introductory signal rule changes made by the sixteenth edition were reversed in the seventeenth. Rule 1.2 now provides as it did prior to 1996. "E.g." is back as a separate signal and "contra" is restored.

Case Name Abbreviations

Rule 10.2.2 no longer spares the first or only word of a party name from abbreviation if it is in the table of abbreviated words (T.6). In addition, that table has been expanded.

Recognition of Vendor- and Medium-Neutral Case Citations

Rule 10.3.3 acknowledges the spreading phenomenon of court adopted vendor- and medium- neutral citation systems, requires the use of such a system where the jurisdiction has adopted one. 10.3.1(b) requires the addition of a parallel citation to a regional reporter even though the rule establishing a vendor, medium-neutral citation system may not.

Listing of Authors

Previously the Bluebook insisted on use of "et al." rather than a full listing of author names when a book had more than two authors. The revised Rule 15.1.1 loosens up to permit a full list when "the names of the authors are relevant."

Recognition of Electronic Media

Electronic and other nonprint resources (commercial online systems, public and commercial internet sites, CD-ROM, Microform and more) have been broken out of Rule 17 (which now deals only with unpublished and forthcoming sources) and placed in a new Rule 18. (The former Rules 18, 19, and 20 have been renumbered accordingly.)




References to treatment of this work's topics in The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation
(Columbia Law Review Ass'n et al. eds., 19th ed. 2010)

* § 1-000. What and Why?
o The Bluebook: pp.1-2, B1
* § 2-110. Electronic Sources – Core Elements
o The Bluebook: B18, 18.2 The Internet, 18.3 Commercial Electronic Databases,
18.4 CD-ROM and Other Electronic Storage Media
* § 2-210. Case Citations – Most Common Form
o The Bluebook: B10, Rule 10, 10.2 Case Names, 10.3 Reporters and Other Sources, 10.4 Court and Jurisdiction, 10.5 Date or Year, T1 United States Jurisdictions, T6 Common Words in Case Names, Institutional Author Names, and Periodical Titles, T7 Court Names, T10 Geographical Terms
* § 2-220. Case Citations – Variants and Special Cases
o The Bluebook: Rule 10, 10.8 Special Citation Forms
* § 2-230. Medium-Neutral Case Citations
o The Bluebook: Rule 10, 10.3.3 Public Domain Format
* § 2-240. Case Citations – Conditional Items
o The Bluebook: Rule 10, 10.6 Parenthetical Information Regarding Cases, 10.7 Prior and Subsequent History, T8 Explanatory Phrases
* § 2-310. Constitution Citations
o The Bluebook: B11, Rule 11, T1 United States Jurisdictions
* § 2-320. Statute Citations – Most Common Form
o The Bluebook: B12, Rule 12, 12.2 Choosing the Proper Citation Form, 12.3 Current Official and Unofficial Codes, T1 United States Jurisdictions
* § 2-340. Statute Citations – Variants and Special Cases
o The Bluebook: Rule 12, 12.4 Session Laws, 12.9 Special Citation Forms, T1 United States Jurisdictions
* § 2-350. Local Ordinance Citations
o The Bluebook: Rule 12, 12.9.2 Ordinances
* § 2-360. Treaty Citations
o The Bluebook: Rule 21, 21.4 Treaties and Other International Agreements
* § 2-410. Regulation Citations – Most Common Form
o The Bluebook: B14, Rule 14, 14.2 Rules, Regulations, and Other Publications, T1 United States Jurisdictions
* § 2-420. Regulation Citations – Variants and Special Cases
o The Bluebook: Rule 14, 14.2 Rules, Regulations, and Other Publications, T1 United States Jurisdictions
* § 2-450. Agency Adjudication Citations
o The Bluebook: Rule 14, 14.3 Administrative Adjudications and Arbitrations, T1 United States Jurisdictions

* § 2-470. Agency Report Citations
o The Bluebook: Rule 14, 14.2 Rules, Regulations, and Other Publications, T1 United States Jurisdictions
* § 2-480. Executive Orders and Proclamations
o The Bluebook: Rule 14, 14.2 Rules, Regulations, and Other Publications, T1 United States Jurisdictions
* § 2-490. Attorney General and Other Advisory Opinions
o The Bluebook: Rule 14, 14.2 Rules, Regulations, and Other Publications, T1 United States Jurisdictions
* § 2-500. How to Cite Arbitrations
o The Bluebook: Rule 14, 14.3 Administrative Adjudications and Arbitrations, T1 United States Jurisdictions
* § 2-600. How to Cite Court Rules
o The Bluebook: Rule 12, 12.9.3 Rules of Evidence and Procedure
* § 2-710. Book Citations – Most Common Form
o The Bluebook: B15, Rule 15, 15.1 Author, 15.2 Editor or Translator, 15.3 Title,
15.4 Edition, Publisher, and Date
* § 2-720(1). Works by Institutional Authors
o The Bluebook: Rule 15, 15.1(c) Institutional authors
* § 2-720(2). Services
o The Bluebook: Rule 19, 19.1 Citation Form for Services, T15 Services
* § 2-720(3). Restatements
o The Bluebook: Rule 12, 12.9.5 Model Codes, Restatements, Standards, Sentencing Guidelines, and Uniform Acts
* § 2-720(4). Annotations
o The Bluebook: Rule 16, 16.7.6 Annotations
* § 2-810. Journal Article Citations – Most Common Form
o The Bluebook: B16, Rule 16, 16.2 Author, 16.3 Title, 16.4 Consecutively Paginated Journals, 16.5 Nonconsecutively Paginated Journals and Magazines, T6 Common Words in Case Names, Institutional Author Names, and Periodical Titles, T13 Institutional Names in Periodical Titles
* § 2-820. Journal Article Citations – Variants and Special Cases Form
o The Bluebook: B16, Rule 16, 16.2 Author, 16.3 Title, 16.4 Consecutively Paginated Journals, 16.5 Nonconsecutively Paginated Journals and Magazines, T6 Common Words in Case Names, Institutional Author Names, and Periodical Titles, T13 Institutional Names in Periodical Titles
* § 2-900. Documents from Earlier Stages of a Case
o The Bluebook: B17, BT1 Court Documents
* § 4-100. Words Abbreviated in Case Names
o The Bluebook: Rule 10, 10.2.1 Case Names in Textual Sentences, 10.2.2 Case Names in Citations, T6 C Common Words in Case Names, Institutional Author Names, and Periodical Titles, T10 Geographical Terms
* § 4-200. Words Used in Case Histories
o The Bluebook: T8 Explanatory Phrases

* § 4-300. Words Omitted in Case Names
o The Bluebook: Rule 10, 10.2.1 General Rules for Case Names, 10.2.2 Additional Rules for Case Names in Citations, T6 Common Words in Case Names, Institutional Author Names, and Periodical Titles
* § 4-400. Reporters and Courts
o The Bluebook: T1 United States Jurisdictions
* § 4-500. Territorial Abbreviations
o The Bluebook: T10 Geographic Terms
* § 4-600. Months
o The Bluebook: T12 Months
* § 4-700. Frequently Cited Journals
o The Bluebook: T6 Common Words in Case Names, Institutional Author Names, and Periodical Titles
* § 4-810. Spacing between Abbreviated Words
o The Bluebook: Rule 6, 6.1(a) Spacing
* § 4-820. Periods in Abbreviations
o The Bluebook: Rule 6, 6.1(b) Periods
* § 5-000. Underlining and Italics
o The Bluebook: B2, Rule 7 Italicization for Style and in Unique Circumstances
* § 6-100. Quoting
o The Bluebook: B5, Rule 5, 5.1 Formatting of Quotations, 5.2 Alterations and Quotations Within Quotations, 5.3 Omissions
* § 6-200. Citations and Related Text
o The Bluebook: B1.1 Citation Sentences and Clauses
* § 6-300. Signals
o The Bluebook: B1.2 Introductory Signals, Rule 1, 1.2 Introductory Signals
* § 6-400. Order
o The Bluebook: B1.2 Introductory Signals, Rule 1, 1.3 Order of Signals, 1.4 Order of Authorities Within Each Signal
* § 6-500. Short Forms
o The Bluebook: B10.2



References to the treatment of this work's topics in the ALWD Guide to Legal Citation (6th ed. 2017)

* § 1-000. What and Why?
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: pp. 2-7
* § 2-110. Electronic Sources – Core Elements
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 30.0 Electronic Sources in General, 31.0 World Wide Web Sites and Blogs, 32.0 Commercial Databases, 33.0 Email, Listservs, CD-Roms, and other Electronic Media
* § 2-210. Case Citations – Most Common Form
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 12.0 Cases
* § 2-220. Case Citations – Variants and Special Cases
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 12.11 Cases in the Public Domain, 12.12 Slip Opinions, 12.13 Forthcoming Case Publications, 12.14 “Unpublished” (Non- Precedential) Cases
* § 2-230. Medium-Neutral Case Citations
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 12.11 Cases in the Public Domain
* § 2-240. Case Citations – Conditional Items
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 12.8 Subsequent History, 12.9 Prior History,
12.10 Parenthetical Information
* § 2-250. Citing Unpublished Cases
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 12.13 “Unpublished” (Non-Precedential) Cases
* § 2-310. Constitution Citations
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 13.0 Constitutions
* § 2-320. Statute Citations – Most Common Form
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 14.0 Statutory Codes and Session Laws
* § 2-340. Statute Citations – Variants and Special Cases
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 14.0 Statutory Codes and Session Laws
* § 2-350. Local Ordinance Citations
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 17.0 Ordinances
* § 2-360. Treaty Citations
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 19.0 Treaties and International Conventions, and Agreements
* § 2-410. Regulation Citations – Most Common Form
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 18.0 Administrative and Executive Materials
* § 2-420. Regulation Citations – Variants and Special Cases
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 18.0 Administrative and Executive Materials
* § 2-450. Agency Adjudication Citations
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 18.5 Full Citations to Federal Agency Decisions, 18.15 Full Citations to State Agency Decisions

* § 2-470. Agency Report Citations
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 18.9 Full Citations to Executive Documents,
18.18 Other Administrative and Executive Materials
* § 2-480. Executive Orders and Proclamations
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 18.9 Full Citations to Executive Documents,
18.17 Citations to State Executive Materials
* § 2-490. Attorney General and Other Advisory Opinions
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 18.8 Full Citations to Advisory Opinions, 18.16 Citations to State Advisory Opinions
* § 2-500. How to Cite Arbitrations
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: [Not covered]
* § 2-600. How to Cite Court Rules
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 16.0 Court Rules, Judicial Administrative Rules, Ethics Opinions, and Jury Instructions
* § 2-710. Book Citations – Most Common Form
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 20.0 Books, Treatises, and Other Nonperiodic Materials
* § 2-720(1). Works by Institutional Authors
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 20.0 Books, Treatises, and Other Nonperiodic Materials, 22.0 Dictionaries, Encyclopedias, and American Law Reports Annotations
* § 2-720(2). Services
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 24.0 Looseleaf Services and Reporters
* § 2-720(3). Restatements
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 23.0 Restatements, Model Codes, Uniform Laws, and Sentencing Guidelines
* § 2-720(4). Annotations
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 22.6 Full Citation Format to Annotations in American Law Reports
* § 2-810. Journal Article Citations – Most Common Form
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 21.0 Law Reviews and Other Periodicals
* § 2-820. Journal Article Citations – Variants and Special Cases
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 21.0 Law Reviews and Other Periodicals
* § 2-900. Documents from Earlier Stages of a Case
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 25.0 Court Documents, Transcripts, and Appellate Records
* § 4-100. Words Abbreviated in Case Names
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 2.0 Abbreviations, 12.2 Case Name, App. 3 General Abbreviations
* § 4-200. Words Used in Case Histories
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 12.8 Subsequent History
* § 4-300. Words Omitted in Case Names
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 12.2 Case Name
* § 4-400. Reporters and Courts
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 2.0 Abbreviations, 12.4 Reporter Name, 12.6 Court Abbreviation, App. 4 Court Abbreviations

* § 4-500. Territorial Abbreviations
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 2.0 Abbreviations, App. 3 General Abbreviations
* § 4-600. Months
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 2.0 Abbreviations, App. 3 General Abbreviations
* § 4-700. Frequently Cited Journals
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 2.0 Abbreviations, App. 5 Periodicals and Looseleaf Services
* § 4-810. Spacing between Abbreviated Words
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 2.2 Spacing
* § 4-820. Periods in Abbreviations
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 2.0 Abbreviations, App. 3 General Abbreviations
* § 5-000. Underlining and Italics
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 1.0 Typeface for Citations
* § 6-100. Quoting
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 38.0 Quotations, 39.0 Altering Quotations, 40.0 Indicating Omissions from Quotations
* § 6-200. Citations and Related Text
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 34.0 Citation Placement and Use
* § 6-300. Signals
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 35.0 Signals
* § 6-400. Order
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 36.0 Order of Cited Authorities
* § 6-500. Short Forms
o ALWD Guide to Legal Citation: 11.0 Full and Short Citation Formats


* Ala. | Alaska | Ariz. | Ark. | Cal. | Colo. | Conn. | Del. | D.C. | Fla. | Ga. | Haw.
* Idaho | Ill. | Ind. | Iowa | Kan. | Ky. | La. | Me. | Md. | Mass. | Mich. | Minn.
* Miss. | Mo. | Mont. | Neb. | Nev. | N.H. | N.J. | N.M. | N.Y. | N.C. | N.D. | Ohio
* Okla. | Or. | Pa. | R.I. | S.C. | S.D. | Tenn. | Tex. | Utah | Vt. | Va. | Wash.
* W. Va. | Wis. | Wyo.

The following table provides links to the citation forms for cases, statutes, and regulations in all fifty states and the District of Columbia. For each it also provides a sample of in-state citation practice drawing upon a decision of the state's highest court and notes any explicit citation rules governing briefs and memoranda submitted to that court.

* Alabama [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Alaska [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Arizona [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Arkansas [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* California [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Colorado [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Connecticut [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Delaware [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* District of Columbia [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Florida [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Georgia [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Hawaii [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Idaho [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Illinois [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Indiana [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Iowa [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Kansas [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Kentucky [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Louisiana [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Maine [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Maryland [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Massachusetts [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Michigan [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Minnesota [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Mississippi [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Missouri [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Montana [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Nebraska [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Nevada [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* New Hampshire [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* New Jersey [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* New Mexico [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* New York [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* North Carolina [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]

* North Dakota [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Ohio [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Oklahoma [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Oregon [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Pennsylvania [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Rhode Island [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* South Carolina [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* South Dakota [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Tennessee [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Texas [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Utah [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Vermont [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Virginia [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Washington [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* West Virginia [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Wisconsin [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]
* Wyoming [Cases] [Statutes] [Regulations] [Examples and Rules]




. . . .

As required by § 39-1-1(a), Ala. Code 1975, White-Spunner subsequently obtained two payment bonds from Hartford, one of which would compensate Auburn in the event White- Spunner failed to perform under the contract, the other of which would be used to compensate subcontractors and suppliers in the event White-Spunner failed to do so in a timely fashion.

. . . .

We begin our examination of the labor-broker issue by looking to § 34-8-1 et seq., Ala. Code 1975, the chapter of the Alabama Code governing the licensing of contractors. This Court succinctly described its approach when interpreting statutes in DeKalb County LP Gas Co. v. Suburban Gas, Inc., 729 So. 2d 270, 275-76 (Ala. 1998). . . .

Importantly, White-Spunner and Hartford emphasize, it is undisputed that Buena Vista employees did not work simply as consultants, equipment installers, or performers of menial labor. Rather, framing is specifically recognized as a construction activity by the Licensing Board for General Contractors. See Ala. Administrative Code (Licensing Board for General Contractors), Regulation 230-X-1-.27.



. . . .

CCC nevertheless argues that Buena Vista did not engage in contracting because, it argues, the employees supplied by Buena Vista effectively became CCC employees and employees of a licensed contractor are not required to be licensed themselves. Cooper v. Johnston, 283 Ala. 565, 569, 219 So. 2d 392, 395 (1969).

. . . .

Ala. R. App. P. 28, http://judicial.alabama.gov/library/rules/ap28.pdf.	

(a) Brief of the Appellant/Petitioner.

The brief of the appellant or the petitioner, if a petition for a writ of certiorari is granted and the writ issues, shall comply with the form requirements of Rule 32. In addition, the brief of the appellant or the petitioner shall contain under appropriate headings and in the order here indicated:

. . . .

(4) TABLE OF AUTHORITIES. A table of authorities, including cases (arranged alphabetically), statutes, and other authorities with reference to the pages of the brief where those cases, statutes, and other authorities are cited;

. . . .

(10) ARGUMENT. An argument containing the contentions of the appellant/petitioner with respect to the issues presented, and the reasons therefor, with citations to the cases, statutes, other authorities, and parts of the record relied on. Citations of authority shall comply with the rules of citation in the latest edition of either The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation or ALWD [Association of Legal Writing Directors] Citation Manual: A Professional System of Citation or shall otherwise comply with the style and form used in opinions of the Supreme Court of Alabama. Citations shall reference the specific page number(s) that relate to the proposition for which the case is cited;

. . . .

(g) References in briefs to the record.

References in the briefs to the record on appeal shall be to the appropriate page numbers of the record on appeal. If reference is made to a page of the clerk's record, the reference shall be preceded by the letter "C." If a reference is made to a page in the reporter's transcript, then the reference shall be preceded by the letter "R." If reference is made to evidence, it shall be made to the pages of the clerk's record or reporter's transcript at which the evidence was identified, offered, and received or rejected.

(h) Reproduction of statutes, rules, regulations, etc.

If determination of the issues presented requires the study of statutes, rules, regulations, etc., or relevant parts thereof, they shall be reproduced in the brief or in an addendum at the end, or they may be supplied to the court in pamphlet form.

Ala. R. App. P. 53(d), http://judicial.alabama.gov/library/rules/ap53.pdf.	

. . . .

(d) “No-opinion” affirmance not precedent. An order of affirmance issued by the Supreme Court or the Court of Civil Appeals by which a judgment or order is affirmed without an opinion, pursuant to section (a), shall have no precedential value and shall not be cited in arguments or briefs and shall not be used by any court within this state, except for the purpose of establishing the application of the doctrine of law of the case, res judicata, collateral estoppel, double jeopardy, or procedural bar.

. . . .

Ala. R. App. P. 54(d), http://judicial.alabama.gov/library/rules/ap54.pdf.	

. . . .

(d) “No-opinion” affirmance not precedent. An orders of affirmance or a memorandum issued by the Court of Criminal Appeals by which a judgment or an order is affirmed without an opinion, pursuant to section (a) in a case designated as a “No-opinion” case, shall have no precedential value and shall not be cited in arguments or briefs and shall not be used by any court within this state, except for the purpose of establishing the application of the doctrine of law of the case, res judicata, collateral estoppel, double jeopardy, or procedural bar.




. . . .

The court of appeals summarized the charges against Dupier, Miller, and Twohy and the trial court proceedings as follows . . . State v. Dupier, 74 P.3d 922, 927-28 (Alaska App. 2003).

. . . .

The facts of this case are undisputed. Appellees John Dupier, Rodman E. Miller, and Philip J. Twohy each held Individual Fishing Quotas (IFQs) to fish in federal waters. In 2001, after fishing legally in federal waters, the fishers separately attempted to land their catches in Alaska without first obtaining state permits from the Commercial Fisheries Entry Commission (CFEC). None of the fishers attempted to fish in state waters. The State charged the fishers with possessing commercially taken fish in state waters without having a valid interim-use permit, in violation of 20 AAC 05.110.

. . . .

The scope of the CFEC's authority to require permits within state waters turns on the language in the Alaska statutes governing interim-use permits, particularly AS 16.43.210(a), but also AS 16.43.140(a), AS 16.10.267(a)(1), and AS 16.05.675. Following the court of appeals decision in this case, the legislature amended AS 16.43.210(a) so that it is now clear that the CFEC may issue interim-use permits for all Alaska fisheries, regardless of whether the fishery is subject to limited entry.

. . . .

The State argues that the 2004 amendment to AS 16.43.210(a) serves as a legislative clarification of pre-existing law. But in Hillman v. Nationwide Mut. Fire Ins. Co., we reasoned: "While the legislature is fully empowered to declare present law by legislation, it is not institutionally competent to issue opinions as to what a statute passed by an earlier legislature meant." 758 P.2d 1248, 1252-53 (Alaska 1988). We have followed the Hillman rule in a number of subsequent cases. See State, Dep't of Revenue v. OSG Bulk Ships, Inc., 961 P.2d 399, 406 n.13 (Alaska 1998); Univ. of Alaska v. Tumeo, 933 P.2d 1147, 1156 (Alaska 1997); Hickel v. Cowper, 874 P.2d 922, 925 n.7 (Alaska 1994); Flisock v. State, Div. of Ret. & Benefits, 818 P.2d 640, 645 (Alaska 1991); Wrangell Forest Prods. v. Alderson, 786 P.2d 916, 918 n.1 (Alaska 1990). In this case, we decline to treat the 2004 amendment as a legislative clarification of the pre-existing law.

. . . .



(c) Substantive Requirements.

(1) Brief of Appellant.

The brief of the appellant shall contain the following items under appropriate headings and in the order here indicated:

. . . .

(B) A table of cases alphabetically arranged, statutes, and other authorities cited, with references to the pages of the brief where they are cited.

(C) The constitutional provisions, statutes, court rules, ordinances, and regulations principally relied upon, set out verbatim or their pertinent provisions appropriately summarized.

. . . .

(I) An argument section, which shall contain the contentions of the appellant with respect to the issues presented, and the reasons therefor, with citations to the authorities, statutes and parts of the record relied on. The section may be preceded by a summary. Each major contention shall be preceded by a heading indicating the subject matter. References to the record shall conform to the requirements of subparagraph (c)(8).

. . . .

(8) References in Briefs to the Record.

(A) References in Cases in Which Excerpts are Prepared.

References in the briefs to parts of the record reproduced in an excerpt shall be to the pages of the excerpt at which those parts appear. The form for references to pages of the excerpt is [Exc. 	 ]. Briefs may reference parts of the record not reproduced in an excerpt. The form for references to pages of the transcript is [Tr. 	 ] and to pages of the trial court file is
[R.	 ]. The form for references to untranscribed portions of the electronic record is [CD (#), at Time 00:00:00 or Tape (#), at Log 00:00:00]

. . . .




. . . .

¶17 Section 27 of the Restatement (Second) of Contracts provides that:

Manifestations of assent that are in themselves sufficient to conclude a contract will not be prevented from so operating by the fact that the parties also manifest an intention to prepare and adopt a written memorial thereof; but the circumstances may show that the agreements are preliminary negotiations.

Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 27 (1981). In support of the proposition that Arizona has adopted this section, the court refers to three recent decisions of the court of appeals. See Tabler v. Indus. Comm'n, 202 Ariz. 518, 521 ¶10, 47 P.3d 1156, 1159 (App. 2002); Johnson
Int'l, Inc. v. City of Phoenix, 192 Ariz. 466, 470-71 ¶26, 967 P.2d 607, 611-12 (App. 1998);
AROK Constr. Co. v. Indian Constr. Servs., 174 Ariz. 291, 297, 848 P.2d 870, 876 (App.
1993).

. . . .

¶19 Ry-Tan also argues that the Arizona School District Procurement Code (the Code), Ariz. Admin. Code (A.A.C.) R7-2-1001 to R7-2-1195, dramatically altered the landscape of school procurement contracts and effectively displaced the common law rule of Covington. The state board of education adopted the Code in 1987 pursuant to legislative authority. A.R.S. § 15-
213.J (Supp. 2004). By its terms, the Code governs the "expenditure of public monies" for a school district's procurement of "construction, materials and services." A.A.C. R7-2-1002.A.

¶20 The legislature, of course, can modify or abrogate the common law. To do so, however, it must express its intent clearly and, "absent a clear manifestation of legislative intent to abrogate the common law, we interpret statutes with every intendment in favor of consistency with the common law." Pleak v. Entrada Prop. Owners' Ass'n, 207 Ariz. 418, 422 ¶12, 87 P.3d 831, 835 (2004) (citation omitted).

. . . .

Ariz. R. Civ. App. P. 13(a), https://govt.westlaw.com/azrules/.	

Rule 13. Briefs

(a) Brief of the Appellant.

The brief of the appellant shall concisely and clearly set forth under the appropriate headings and in the order here indicated:

. . . .

2. A table of citations, which shall alphabetically arrange and index the cases, statutes and other authorities cited, with references to the pages of the brief on which they are cited.

. . . .

6. An argument which shall contain the contentions of the appellant with respect to the issues presented, and the reasons therefor, with citations to the authorities, statutes and parts of the record relied on. The argument may include a summary. With respect to each contention raised on appeal, the proper standard of review on appeal shall be identified, with citations to relevant authority, at the outset of the discussion of that contention. Citation of authorities shall be to the volume and page number of the official reports and also when possible to the unofficial reporters.

. . . .

(d) Reproduction of Constitutional Provisions, Statutes, Rules, Regulations and Instructions: the Appendix.

1. If determination of the issues presented requires the study of constitutional provisions, rules, statutes, regulations or instructions given or refused, the relevant parts of any of the foregoing shall be reproduced in the brief or in an appendix to the brief. An appendix may include additional items of the record, as provided in Rule 11(a)(3). An appendix may include extended quotations from cases and authorities where such quotations are required for proper presentation of the issues.

2. If an appendix is included, it shall be separated from the main body of a brief filed in hard copy by a blank page of distinctive color. It shall be numbered with arabic numerals, and it shall not constitute a part of the brief for the purpose of determining length under Rule 14(b). If the brief is filed electronically, and if the appendix contains multiple documents, such documents shall be electronically bookmarked in the appendices' table of contents.



Note: Similar provisions appear in the rules of criminal procedure. Ariz. R. Crim. P. 31.13(c)(1).

Ariz. Sup. Ct. R. 111, https://govt.westlaw.com/azrules/.	

(a) Definitions.

1. An opinion is a written disposition of a matter which is intended for publication under (4) below.

2. A memorandum decision is a written disposition of a matter not intended for publication.

3. An order is any disposition of a matter before the court other than by opinion or memorandum decision.

4. Publication is the distribution of opinions for reporting by publishing companies in compliance with the provisions of A.R.S. §§ 12-107, 12-108, and 12-120.07.

. . . .

(c) Dispositions as Precedent.

(1) Memorandum decisions of Arizona state courts are not precedential and such a decision may be cited only:

(A) to establish claim preclusion, issue preclusion, or law of the case;

(B) to assist the appellate court in deciding whether to issue a published opinion, grant a motion for reconsideration, or grant a petition for review; or

(C) for persuasive value, but only if it was issued on or after January 1, 2015; no opinion adequately addresses the issue before the court; and the citation is not to a depublished opinion or a depublished portion of an opinion.

(2) A citation must indicate if a decision is a memorandum decision.

(3) A party citing a memorandum decision must provide either a copy of the decision or a hyperlink to the decision where it may be obtained without charge.

(4) A party has no duty to cite a memorandum decision.

(d) Dispositions of Tribunals in Other Jurisdictions. A party may cite a decision of a tribunal in another jurisdiction, as permitted in that jurisdiction. Such a decision may be cited on a point of Arizona law only if it complies with Rule 111(c)(1)(C).

. . . .



Note: Similar provisions appear in the rules of civil appellate procedure. Ariz. R. Civ. App. P. 28(c).




. . . .

In their prayer for relief, the school districts sought the following:

a. A declaration that Act 778 of 2009 does not require a school district that operates a child care center or a pre-K program to purchase or maintain general liability insurance;

b. A declaration that Act 778 of 2009 in no way supersedes, repeals or overrules in any respect the application of the tort immunity statute for school districts found in A.C.A. § 21-9- 301 even where they, as here, may operate a child care center or a pre-K program;

. . . .

In reviewing the circuit judge's decision on a motion to dismiss, this court has said,

[W]e treat the facts alleged in the complaint as true and view them in the light most favorable to the party who filed the complaint. In testing the sufficiency of the complaint on a motion to dismiss, all reasonable inferences must be resolved in favor of the complaint, and the pleadings are to be liberally construed. However, our rules require fact pleading, and a complaint must state facts, not mere conclusions, in order to entitle the pleader to relief.

Arkansas Dep't of Envtl. Quality v. Oil Producers of Ark., 2009 Ark. 297, at 5, 318 S.W.3d 570, 572-73 (internal citations omitted) (quoting Ark. Tech Univ. v. Link, 341 Ark. 495, 501, 17 S.W.3d 809, 812 (2000)). Our standard of review for the denial of a motion to dismiss is whether the circuit judge abused his or her discretion. Id. (citing S. Coll. of Naturopathy v. State ex rel. Beebe, 360 Ark. 543, 203 S.W.3d 111 (2005)).


Rule 4-2. Contents of briefs.

(a) Contents.

The contents of the brief shall be in the following order:

. . . .

(4) Table of authorities. The table of authorities shall be an alphabetical listing of authorities with a designation of the page number of the brief on which the authority appears. The

authorities shall be grouped as follows: (A) Cases (B) Statutes and Rules (C) Books and Treatises (D) Miscellaneous

. . . .

(7) Argument. Arguments shall be presented under subheadings numbered to correspond to the outline of points to be relied upon. For each issue, the applicable standard of review shall be concisely stated at the beginning of the discussion of the issue. Citations of decisions of the Arkansas Supreme Court and Court of Appeals must be from the official reports, and all citations to both official and unofficial reports shall follow the format prescribed in Rule 5-2. All citations of decisions of any other court must state the style of the case and cite the official reporter (including a regional reporter so designated by the issuing court) in which the case is found. If the case is also reported by unofficial publishers, including an unofficial electronic database, one of these should also be cited. Reference in the argument portion of the parties’ briefs to material found in the abstract and addendum shall be followed by a reference to the page number of the abstract or addendum at which such material may be found. . . .

Rule 5-2. Opinions.

. . . .

(b) Official Reports.

(1) The Arkansas Reports and the Arkansas Appellate Reports shall contain the official report of decisions of the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals issued before February 14, 2009. The official report of decisions issued after that date shall be an electronic file created, authenticated, secured, and maintained by the Reporter of Decisions on the Arkansas Judiciary website.

(2) After an opinion is announced, the Reporter shall post a preliminary report of the opinion’s text on the website. This version is subject to editorial corrections. After the mandate has issued, and any needed editorial corrections are made, the Reporter shall replace the preliminary report with an authenticated and secure electronic file containing the permanent and final report of the decision.

(3) Every report of every decision shall contain an official citation created by the Reporter. This citation shall include the year in which the decision was issued, the abbreviated name of the issuing court, and the sequential appellate decision number for the year. For example, the citation White v. Green, 2010 Ark. 171, reflects that the decision was issued in 2010, by the Arkansas Supreme Court, and was the one hundred seventy-first opinion issued by that court that calendar year. The citation Roe v. State, 2010 Ark. App. 745, reflects that this decision was made by the Court of Appeals and was the seven hundred forty-fifth appellate opinion issued by that court in calendar year 2010.

(c) Precedential Value. Every Supreme Court and Court of Appeals opinion issued after July 1, 2009, is precedent and may be relied upon and cited by any party in any proceeding. Opinions of the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals issued before July 1, 2009, and not

designated for publication shall not be cited, quoted, or referred to by any court or in any argument, brief, or other materials presented to any court (except in continuing or related litigation upon an issue such as res judicata, collateral estoppel, or law of the case).

(d) Uniform citation.

(1) Decisions included in the Arkansas Reports and Arkansas Appellate Reports shall be cited in all court papers by referring to the volume and page where the decision can be found and the year of the decision. Parallel citations to the regional reporter, if available, are required. Pinpoint citations to specific pages are strongly encouraged. For example:

Smith v. Jones, 338 Ark. 556, 558, 999 S.W.2d 669, 670 (1999).

Doe v. State, 74 Ark. App. 193, 198, 45 S.W.3d 860, 864 (2001).

(2) Published decisions issued between February 14, 2009, and July 1, 2009, and all decisions issued after July 1, 2009, and available on the Arkansas Judiciary website shall be cited in all court papers by referring to the case name, the year of the decision, the abbreviated court name, and the appellate decision number. Arkansas Supreme Court shall be abbreviated “Ark.” Arkansas Court of Appeals shall be abbreviated “Ark. App.” Parentheticals containing a date or court abbreviation shall not be used. Parallel citations to the regional reporter, if available, are required. If the regional reporter citation is not available, then parallel citations to unofficial sources, including unofficial electronic databases, may be provided. Pinpoint citations to specific pages are strongly encouraged. A pinpoint citation to the official version of a decision on the Arkansas Judiciary website shall refer to the page of the electronic file where the matter cited appears. For example:

Smith v. Hickman, 2009 Ark. 12, at 1, 273 S.W.3d 340, 343.

Doe v. State, 2009 Ark. App. 318, at 7, 2009 WL 240613, at *8.

White v. Green, 2010 Ark. 171, at 3, 2010 WL 3109899, at *2.

Roe v. State, 2010 Ark. App. 745, at 6, 279 S.W.3d 495, 497.

(3) When an unpublished decision may be cited in continuing or related litigation pursuant to subdivision (c), the opinion’s date determines the citation form. Opinions issued before February 14, 2009, shall be cited by referring to the case name, the appellate docket number, the abbreviated name of the issuing court and the complete date of the opinion in the first parenthetical, and including “unpublished” in a second parenthetical. Opinions issued after February 14, 2009, and before July 1, 2009, shall be cited by referring to the case name, the year of the decision, the abbreviated court name, the appellate decision number, and including “unpublished” in a parenthetical. Parallel citations to unofficial sources, including unofficial electronic databases, may be provided. For example:

Holt v. Newbern, No. CA07-345, slip op. at 4, 2008 WL 30117, at *2 (Ark. App. Apr. 16, 2008) (unpublished).



BASIC BLUEBOOK
© 2021 The Writing Center at GULC. All Rights Reserved.*

Legal citation differs from any other type in academic scholarship or writing. At times, The Bluebook can seem confusing, frustrating, time-consuming to use, and intimidating. However, legal citations tell your reader a great deal of information about the cited source. Careful adherence to The Bluebook can improve the clarity and conciseness of your writing and demonstrate your credibility as a legal writer. Consider these basic practitioner’s tips to help conquer those Bluebook fears. The following rules are not only used most often but misused most often too!

Consult the Bluebook in conjunction with these tips; many subtleties that are not set out below may apply to each rule. These tips are based on the 21st edition of The Bluebook.

1. Spacing (Rule 6.1) (B6)

In academic writing, close up all adjacent single capitals. Do not close up single capitals with longer abbreviations. Numbers, both ordinal and cardinal, are treated as single capitals.

Right	Wrong

W.D. Pa.	W.D.Pa.
F. Supp.	F.Supp.
S. Ct.	S.Ct.
F. 2d	F.2d
Cal. App. 3d	Cal.App.3d

In practitioner writing, such as briefs and other court documents, abbreviations in reporter names may now be closed up to conserve the number of words used. Thus, the reporter “S. Ct.” may be written as either “S. Ct.” or “S.Ct.” This change was introduced in the 21st edition, so it is likely some judges and practicing attorneys are not aware of the update. Always be sure to check with your supervising attorney as to their preferences on spacing.

2. Capitalization (Rule 8) (B.7.3.1)

In headings, capitalize the initial word, any word that immediately follows a colon, and all other

* Original by Eumi Lee & Julie Teperow. Subsequent revisions by Karin Scherner-Kim, Andrea Battaglini, Martha Mora, Mindy Barry, and Eric Nitz.. Additional revisions in 2021 by Richard Bernache and Halle Edwards.

words except articles, conjunctions, and prepositions of four or fewer letters. However, in all text, capitalize nouns referring to people or groups only when they refer to specific persons, offices, or bodies. The same applies to words such as “act” or “circuit”: capitalize them only when they refer to a specific act, circuit, or when referring to a circuit by name or number.

Right

We adhere to the Second Circuit’s ruling, rather than follow other circuits’ ambiguous precedent.

With respect to the word “court,” capitalize when naming any court in full, or when referring to the U.S. Supreme Court. You should also capitalize “Court” in a court document when referring to the court that will be receiving that document.

Right

Defendant’s reliance on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia’s holding concerning the lack of prior notice was misplaced because the state supreme court has held that prior notice is not required.

3. Order of Signals (Rule 1.3).

When you use more than one signal in a citation string, the signals should be listed in the order in which they appear in Rule 1.2, so that see would precede see also, etc. Additionally, signals of the same type (i.e., all signals indicating support, comparison, contradiction, or the provision of background information) should be strung together in a single citation sentence, using semicolonsto separate them. However, different types of signals (i.e., contradictory authority cited after supporting authority) must be grouped in separate citation sentences. See the Writing Center Handout Bluebook Signals Explained for more information on how to use signals.

Right

See Smith v. California, 479 U.S. 121 (1990); cf. Jackson v. Herrick, 59 F. Supp. 853
(1978). But see Rand v. Olympia, 588 U.S. 43 (1994).

Note, however, that if the authorities you cite support only a part of your sentence and are, in accordance with Rule 1.1, cited in a citation clause following that part and set off by commas, the citation clause can contain signals of different groups without the need for separate sentences. Thus, citation clauses can contain both supporting and contradictory authority, separated only by a semicolon.

4. Order of Authorities Within Each Signal (Rule 1.4)

In the 21st Edition, Rule 1.4 allows substantial flexibility in how to order authorities within each signal. Authorities should be ordered in a logical manner. For example, if a case is substantially more helpful to or authoritative on your premise, that case can be cited first even if it is older than other cases within the signal.

Previous editions of The Bluebook required authorities to be listed in a specific order by type, unless a particular authority was especially helpful. For example, constitutions were listed before statutes. Cases from the same court were listed in chronological order. Not all practitioners may be aware of the change, and some may wish to adhere to the previous rule. Check with your supervisor about whether your office follows a particular standard.

5. Page Ranges (Rules 3.2, 3.3)

When citing to sources that span more than one page, retain the last two digits, and drop the other repetitious digits. This rule does not apply when citing multiple sections of statutes or regulations. Separate the inclusive page numbers with an en dash (–) or hyphen (-); there are no spaces between the numerals and the en dash.

100 U.S. 101, 111–12 (1999).
100 U.S. 1090, 1099–101 (1999).
17 U.S.C. §§ 1924–1999.
Del. Code Ann. Tit. 9 §§ 817–819 (1989).

6. Short Citations for Cases (Rules 4, 10.9)

The following are appropriate short citations for Anzidei v. Pitts Inc., 5 F.2d 20, 24 (5th Cir.1950):

Right	Wrong

Anzidei, 5 F.2d at 24.	Anzidei, at 24.
5 F.2d at 24. [when the name of the case is mentioned in the text]
Id. at 24. [when the immediately preceding cite is to Anzidei and it is not a string cite.]

See Rule 10.9 for when to use each of the appropriate short citations.

7. Parentheticals (Rule 1.5)

Parentheticals are a useful means of conveying the relevance of cited materials, especially when the purpose of the citation would otherwise be unclear. Explanatory parenthetical phrases should begin with a present participle.

See Wilsey v. Beyer Mut. Life Ins., 10 U.S. 200 (1921) (holding that the eyesight damage from law school was not recoverable under the Georgetown health plan).

Note the space between the year and the parenthetical phrase. See examples in Rule1.5.

8. General Format for Parenthetical Information (Rule 1.5).

You have probably been told repeatedly that it is important to include parenthetical information when you cite to cases or other authority to allow the reader to understand why and how the

authority is relevant to the point you are making. And, of course, The Bluebook provides you with detailed rules about how to format your parentheticals.

The general rule is that parentheticals should start with a lower-case present participle such as “holding,” or “finding” and end without punctuation, such as: (holding that defendant should have been given Miranda warnings). This general rule, however, has two exceptions:

First, if your parenthetical directly quotes at least one full sentence, it should begin with a capital letter and contain the appropriate closing punctuation, i.e., in most cases, a period.

Second, you can use a shorter parenthetical where a complete phrase starting with a present participle is unnecessarily complex. This applies, for example, where you list a number of situations in which courts have addressed various permutations of the same point, as in the following example: See also Smith v. Doe, 999 F.3d 9999 (14th Cir. 2002) (direct review); Jones v. Doe, 888 F.3d 8888 (14th Cir. 2002) (collateral review).

When a single citation contains multiple parentheticals, place them in this order:

(date) [hereinafter short name] (en banc) (Lastname, J., concurring) (plurality opinion) (per curiam) (alternation in original) (emphasis added) (footnote omitted) (citations omitted) (quoting another source) (internal quotation marks omitted) (citing another source), http://www.domainname.com (last visited) (explanatory parenthetical), prior or subsequent history.

9. State Abbreviations

Geographical terms are listed in Table 10 of the Bluebook.

When citing to a decision published in a federal or regional reporter, the court that handed down that decision must be cited. Look at the case heading to figure out what court is “speaking.” Then consult Table 10 and Table 7 to cite the case appropriately.

Right

Howard Fin. Grp. v. Roche, 233 A.2d 33 (Pa. Super. Ct. 1983). McCarthy v. Leeds Equip. Coop., 197 F. Supp. 297 (S.D.N.Y. 1994).

10. Lexis/Westlaw Citation (Rule 10.8.1)

When citing to an electronic database, provide the case name, docket number, database identifier, court name, and full date. Abbreviations for months are located in Table 12.


Right

Martin v. Brez Mach. Co., No. CIV.A.98-1234, 1998 WL 98765, at *2 (S.D.N.Y. Feb. 3, 1998).
Coulter v. Sontag, Inc., No. 96-6789, 1997 U.S. App. LEXIS 5864, at *7 n.4 (1st Cir. Mar. 1, 1997).

Screen pages are indicated by an asterisk. Pages from other reporters that have published the opinion usually also are marked. If you are citing to the pages from reporters that have publishedthe opinion, do not place asterisks in the citation.

A case is not published if it is only available on-line. If the opinion is published, then it is preferable to cite to that version, rather than the one on Lexis or Westlaw.

Short Cites Examples for Westlaw/Lexis:

Martin, 1998 WL 98765, at *1.
Coulter, 1997 U.S. App. LEXIS 5864, at *6–7.



BLUEBOOK SIGNALS EXPLAINED*
© 2021 The Writing Center at GULC. All Rights Reserved.

Given the many intricacies of legal citation, introductory signals are often overlooked. Even The Bluebook itself devotes precious little space to explaining them, leading to substantial confusion as to what signals do and when to use them.

Despite their cursory treatment in The Bluebook, signals are important tools of legal writing. Unlike many pieces of legal citation that are purely technical, an effective use of signals can add meaning to your writing, indicating quickly to your reader how a certain source relates to your proposition. This handout, used in conjunction with Bluebook Rules B1.2 (for practitioners) and
1.2 (for academic writing), will help you to get the most out of signals in your writing. It provides a brief overview of signals in general, then explains each signal in detail, using examples to illustrate how each signal works in context.1 Finally, this handout looks at some of the unique mechanics that come into play when using multiple signals within a single citation and when using signals in footnotes.

What is an introductory signal?

Introductory signals may be placed before citations to indicate how the citations relate to the preceding sentence or clause. Signals are a concise way of telling the reader why you are including the citation at all. Signals can tell the reader that the material you cited directly supports your proposition, indirectly supports it, or even refutes it.

What does each signal mean?

The Bluebook lists four different “families” of introductory signals: (1) signals that indicate support, (2) signals that indicate comparison, (3) signals that indicate contradiction, and (4) signals that indicate background material.






* Handout created by Ryan Miller. Revised in 2021 by Richard Bernache and Halle Edwards.
1 Each of the examples revolves around the constitutional right of prisoners to receive medical care. In Estelle v. Gamble, 429 U.S. 97, 106 (1976), the Supreme Court held that denying medical care to prisoners may violate their Eighth Amendment right against cruel and unusual punishment. However, this is the case only if prison officials show “deliberate indifference to [the prisoner’s] serious medical needs.” Id.

Signals that indicate support

These signals are the most common in legal writing; they are used to show that the source cited supports your proposition in some way.

[No signal]
Though it may seem odd to list “no signal” as a signal, the lack of a signal still provides the reader with useful information about a source. When you do not include any signal before a citation, you are indicating to the reader that the source directly supports your proposition. This may be because your proposition is actually a quote from the source you cited, or because you have paraphrased the source. In addition, if your proposition includes statistics or other numerical data from a certain source, you can use [no signal] to indicate that the numbers you are using come directly from that source. Finally, [no signal] can be used when you referred to an authority in your proposition and your citation merely identifies the authority.

Example: The Eighth Amendment forbids prison officers from being deliberately indifferent to a prisoner’s serious medical needs. Estelle v. Gamble, 429 U.S. 97, 104 (1976).

Explanation: The proposition merely paraphrases part of the Court’s holding, so the source directly supports the proposition.

See
See indicates that the source clearly, though indirectly, supports a proposition. That is, the source does not directly state your proposition, but if a reader checked the source, it would be immediately clear to her that it supports your proposition. In addition, when writing a memo or brief for a client, see is used when citing to a case to support a proposition referring to the client or the client’s case.

Example 1: It is important to provide prisoners with proper medical care. See
Estelle v. Gamble, 429 U.S. 97, 104 (1976).

Explanation: The Court does not explicitly say anything about whether medical care is important. However, if a reader saw that failure to provide appropriate medical care was a constitutional violation, she could easily infer that the Court thought such care was important.

Example 2: Because our client has a serious medical need, he is entitled to treatment. See Estelle v. Gamble, 429 U.S. 97, 104 (1976).

Explanation: A reader could quickly reason that Estelle’s holding, which states that prisoners are entitled to treatment for serious medical needs, supports this proposition. However, Estelle itself does not say anything about our client, so see is needed to indicate that the reader must make a small inference that the rule of Estelle should also apply to our client.

E.g.,
E.g., indicates two things. First, the source or sources that follow it directly support the proposition. In this regard, e.g., functions just like [no signal].

Second, e.g., indicates that the sources you chose are only one or a few of multiple sources that support this proposition. Rather than citing every source that supports your proposition, you can use e.g., to signal to the reader that you have chosen the most relevant or illustrative source[s] and that there are others out there that, while supportive, are not necessary to include in your citation.

Note that e.g., can be combined with other signals to indicate that there are multiple sources that have the same relationship to the proposition but that the writer has chosen the most relevant one(s) to cite. For example, see, e.g., denotes that numerous sources indirectly support the proposition. Note that when combining e.g., with other signals, it should be preceded by an italicized comma and followed by a non-italicized comma.

Example: The Eighth Amendment is a broad protection that goes beyond prohibiting only direct, physical punishments. E.g., Estelle v. Gamble, 429
U.S. 97, 104 (1976).

Explanation: Estelle directly supports the proposition, as it provides an example of an Eighth Amendment protection that goes beyond bans on physical punishments. However, e.g., is used because it is far from the only example; the writer could have cited a number of cases. Rather than cite them all, the writer chose the most illustrative case and used e.g., to indicate that there are other cases that support the proposition.

Accord
Accord is a tricky and rarely used signal. It indicates that two or more sources state or support the proposition, but the text either quotes or refers to only one of them. It is most often used to indicate that the law of one jurisdiction is in line with that of another. When using accord, you will first introduce the source that the proposition quotes or refers to, generally using [no signal], and then use accord to introduce the source that was not directly referred to.

Example: The Second Circuit has held that a dental cavity may qualify as a “serious medical need.” Harrison v. Barkley, 219 F.3d 132, 137 (2d Cir. 2000);
accord Formica v. Aylor, 739 F. App’x 745, 756 (4th Cir. 2018).

Explanation: The proposition refers directly to a decision by the Second Circuit that a cavity may qualify as a “serious medical need” under Estelle. Accord is used here to show that the law of another jurisdiction, in this case the Fourth Circuit, is in line with the law of the first jurisdiction.

See also
See also essentially serves as a “step down” from see. It indicates that the cited authority supports the proposition, albeit a bit less directly or a bit less forcefully than a see cite. Perhaps

the see also source speaks in more general terms, or perhaps it is a type of authority that is considerably less binding but still supportive of your proposition. See also is rarely used alone; it often follows citations using [no signal] or see that support the proposition a bit more strongly.
Given the lower weight given to citations following see also signals, it is generally best to include a parenthetical explaining why the source is relevant.

Example: By embracing a broad understanding of Eighth Amendment protections, the Supreme Court has emphasized that these protections guard not only prisoners’ physical safety, but also their dignity. Estelle v. Gamble, 429 U.S. 97, 104 (1976); see also Jonathan Simon, From Health to Humanity: Re-Reading Estelle v. Gamble after Brown v. Plata, 25 Fed. Sent’g Rep. 276, 277 (2013) (tracing the development of the Court’s recognition of dignity in the context of the Eighth Amendment).

Explanation: Because the article cited speaks more generally about the Court’s jurisprudence, and because it is a secondary source and thus has less authoritative force, it is less on point than Estelle is. However, it is still a useful, relevant source, so it is introduced with see also and given a parenthetical to briefly explain to the reader why it also supports the proposition. Note, however, that cases may also be introduced with a see also signal.

Cf.
Cf. is used to introduce a source that supports a proposition that is different from the one it follows, but that is analogous enough to the proposition that it still indirectly supports your proposition. As with see also, cf. generally requires an explanatory parenthetical to be effective, in this case because you will have to explain to the reader why the comparison is relevant.

Example: A broken leg qualifies as a serious medical need. Cf. Burgos v. Philadelphia Prison System, 760 F. Supp. 2d 502, 508 (E.D. Pa. 2011) (holding that a broken arm qualifies as a serious medical need).

Explanation: The source here does not itself support the proposition, though it supports an analogous proposition—that a broken arm constitutes a serious medical need under Estelle. From this proposition, the reader could draw the conclusion that if a broken arm qualifies as a serious medical need, a broken leg most likely would as well. Note the larger logical leap here than that of a see cite; for a cf. citation to be effective, the analogy must be compelling enough for the reader to believe that the source’s proposition is comparable to the main proposition.

Signals that indicate comparison

Though the Bluebook recognizes this as a separate category of signals, there is in fact only one way to indicate comparison through the use of signals: compare . . . with. These signals are unique in that they are always used together; you should never use the compare signal without with or vice-versa.

Compare … With …
This signal lets you set up a comparison that illustrates or supports your proposition. It frequently is useful for showing differences in the law between different jurisdictions. Either “side” of the comparison can include multiple sources linked by “and.” For the comparison to be helpful for the reader, it is best to explain each source through parentheticals. Note that the Bluebook requires commas before “with” and “and,” as illustrated in the example.

Example: The circuits are split as to what test should be used to determine whether a condition constitutes a serious medical need. Compare Mahan v. Plymouth Cty. House of Corrections, 64 F.3d 14, 18 (1st Cir. 1995) (considering serious any medical need that has been diagnosed by a physician as needing treatment or that is so obvious that even a lay person would recognize the need for treatment), and Sheldon v. Pezley, 49 F.3d 1312, 1316 (8th Cir. 1995) (same), with Colwell v. Bannister, 763 F.3d 1060, 1066 (9th Cir. 2014) (considering serious any medical need that could result in further significant injury or the unnecessary infliction of pain if it is not treated).

Explanation: The citation here illustrates the disagreement among the circuits, with the First Circuit and Eighth Circuit using one test and the Ninth Circuit using another. Note the use of parentheticals to show the reader where each circuit stands on the issue.


Signals that indicate contradiction

These signals are fairly rare, as they draw the reader’s attention to sources that contradict your proposition in some way. While it may seem odd to ever cite to sources that cut against your propositions, doing so can at times be an effective way to acknowledge weaknesses in your argument and improve your credibility. Usually, however, you would not merely cite contradictory authority in practice-based documents. Rather, you would engage with that adverse authority and explain why it is not controlling in your case. These signals are more often used in academic writing.

Contra
Think of contra as the “anti-[no signal].” It indicates that the source that follows directly contradicts your proposition.

Example: Only physical injuries and illnesses can constitute serious medical needs. Contra Comstock v. McCrary, 273 F.3d 693, 702–03 (6th Cir. 2001) (“[A] prisoner's psychological needs may constitute serious medical needs.”).

Explanation: Here Comstock directly contradicts the proposition. While the proposition claims that only physical maladies can constitute serious needs, Comstock directly supports the opposite proposition, noting that psychological disorders can also constitute serious medical needs.


But see
Just as contra is the anti-[no signal], but see is the anti-see. But see indicates that the source that follows clearly, though indirectly, supports a proposition that is contrary to your proposition.

Example: Estelle provides a meaningful protection for prisoners’ rights. See 429 U.S. 97, 104 (1976). But see Joel H. Thompson, Today's Deliberate Indifference: Providing Attention without Providing Treatment to Prisoners with Serious Medical Needs, 45 HARV. C.R.-C.L. L. REV. 635 (2010) (arguing that in practice Estelle does little to protect prisoners’ rights).

Explanation: But see is used to indicate that the article suggests, without directly stating, that Estelle protection is not actually meaningful. Though the article does not directly state that Estelle is not meaningful, it notes that few prisoners can actually benefit under Estelle due to a variety of factors. From this the reader can readily infer that Estelle may not be a meaningful protection.

But cf.
The last “anti” signal is but cf., which serves as the inverse of cf. Just as cf. precedes a source that supports a proposition different from the original one but analogous to it, but cf. is used before a source that supports a proposition that is different from the contrary proposition but analogous to that contrary proposition.

Example: Arachnophobia, a crippling, irrational fear of spiders, cannot qualify as a serious medical need. But cf. Talbert v. Correctional Dental Assocs., 731
F. App’x 145, 150 (3d Cir. 2018) (noting that a crippling fear of needles may qualify as a serious medical need).

Explanation: The main proposition is that arachnophobia cannot be a serious medical need. A contrary proposition is that arachnophobia can be a serious medical need. But cf. introduces a source that supports a proposition that is analogous to this contrary proposition—that another phobia, in this case a fear of needles, can be a serious medical need. From this, the reader may infer that arachnophobia can also constitute a serious medical need, because if one irrational fear can be a serious need, it would make sense for another irrational fear to qualify under this standard.

Signals that indicate background material

The last category of signals includes just one: see generally, which is used to refer broadly to background material related to your proposition.

See generally
This signal is used to provide readers with sources that they may refer to in order to better understand the background of your proposition. See generally is rarely used with cases, and instead often introduces journal articles, treatises, or other secondary sources. As with some of the other signals, see generally is usually accompanied by an explanatory parenthetical that tells the reader why the sources that follow it are relevant.

Example: The recognition that the Constitution protected prisoners from indifference to their medical needs signaled a change in the Court’s Eighth Amendment jurisprudence. See generally Philip M. Genty, Confusing Punishment with Custodial Care: The Troublesome Legacy of Estelle v.
Gamble, 21 VT. L. REV. 379 (1996) (discussing the Court’s shift from applying the Eighth Amendment only in cases of capital punishment to more broadly applying it to conditions of detention).

Explanation: See generally is used here to indicate that this article provides useful background that the reader can refer to if he or she wants more information on this topic.

Can I use multiple signals within a single citation sentence or clause?

Yes! As you may have noticed in the examples, a single citation can include a number of different signals. However, Bluebook rule 1.3 has some rules about how to use different signals within a single citation. There are two main rules to keep in mind: first, signals should be used in the order they appear in rule 1.2, and second, in a citation sentence, signals of the same family are separated by semicolons, while signals of different families are separated by periods.
However, in a citation clause, all signals are separated by semicolons regardless of whether or not they are in the same family. Below is a template of a citation sentence that uses every signal, with the different families of signals illustrated by different colors.

Proposition. [no signal] Source A; e.g., Source B; accord Source C; see Source D; see also Source E; cf. Source F. Compare Source G, and Source H, with Source I, and Source J. But see Source K. See generally Source L; Source M.

While it is highly unlikely that you will ever use every signal in a single citation, it is useful to see how each of the signals fit together. In addition, note that if you have multiple sources that use the same signal, you do not repeat the signal; instead, just separate each source within a given signal with a semi-colon. This is illustrated above with sources L and M in see generally.

How are signals used in footnotes?

Signals can be used in footnotes in two ways. First, they can be used just like in above the line citations; that is, they simply precede a citation. Alternatively, signals can be used as the verb of a sentence in a footnote. This can be done to integrate information into the main text of a footnote that would usually be relegated to an explanatory parenthetical. Note that when signals are used as verbs, they are not italicized. Below are examples with corresponding footnotes illustrating this concept:

Example – using a signal to introduce a citation: The recognition that the Constitution protected prisoners from indifference to their medical needs signaled a change in the Court’s Eighth Amendment jurisprudence.EX1

Explanation: This example is almost identical to the see generally example from above, except instead of the signal and citation following in a citation sentence, they are instead placed in the footnote.

Example - using a signal as a verb: The recognition that the Constitution protected prisoners from indifference to their medical needs signaled a change in the Court’s Eighth Amendment jurisprudence.EX2

Explanation: The footnote serves the exact same purpose as the see generally example from above, but now the information that would be included in the parenthetical is integrated into the main sentence.




















EX1 See generally Philip M. Genty, Confusing Punishment with Custodial Care: The Troublesome Legacy of Estelle
v. Gamble, 21 VT. L. REV. 379 (1996) (discussing the Court’s shift from applying the Eighth Amendment only in cases of capital punishment to more broadly applying it to conditions of detention).
EX2 For a discussion of the Court’s shift from applying the Eighth Amendment only in cases of capital punishment to more broadly applying it to conditions of detention, see generally Philip M. Genty, Confusing Punishment with Custodial Care: The Troublesome Legacy of Estelle v. Gamble, 21 VT. L. REV. 379 (1996).



CITATION TO INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CASES, AND ARBITRATIONS UNDER BLUEBOOK RULE 21

© 2021 The Writing Center at GULC. All Rights Reserved.*

Citation to international sources,1 such as a treaty or a case decided by an international court, is governed by Rule 21 of The Bluebook. Rule 21 also covers citation to documents published by certain intergovernmental organizations, such as the United Nations, European Union, and World Trade Organization, but these rules are not discussed in this handout. Citation to foreign materials,2 like statutes of another country is also not within the scope of this handout. This handout focuses on Rule 21.4 (Treaties and Other International Agreements), Rule 21.5 (International Law Cases), and Rule 21.6 (International Arbitrations and Claims Commissions), and provides guidance on how to format the citation for each source.

I. TREATIES AND OTHER INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS

Citation of a treaty or other international agreement generally includes the following information: (1) name of the agreement, (2) parties to the agreement, if applicable, (3) subdivisions, if citing only part of an agreement, (4) date of signing, and (5) the source(s) where the treaty or agreement can be found. The citation will be different based on whether the treaty or agreement is between two parties or multiple parties. In the following citation examples, the relevant portion discussed in each heading or paragraph is highlighted in blue for purposes of illustration only.

Name of Agreement (Rule 21.4.1)

The name of the treaty or agreement should include both its form and subject matter. The agreement could take various forms, such as an agreement, convention, memorandum, protocol, treaty, or understanding. If the name includes more than one form, use only the first form that appears on the title page, unless doing so would create ambiguity.

Convention
Not: Convention & Supplementary Protocol



* Prepared by Hayoung Park, Spring 2017. Revised in 2021 by Richard Bernache and Halle Edwards.
1 For an introduction on different sources of international law, refer to the Writing Center’s handout, A Guide to the Basics of International Law. https://www.law.georgetown.edu/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/A-Guide-to-the-Basics- of-Intl-Law.pdf
2 Consult Rule 20 for information on citation to foreign materials.

The subject matter of the agreement can be found in the title of the agreement.

Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change

The citation should provide the treaty name in English, but if there is no English-language name available, follow the rule for non-English language documents under rule 20.2.2, which requires the name to appear in the original language for the first citation. A shortened name or the full name in English may appear in brackets following the original-language name.

Verdrag tot het Vermijden van Dubbele Belasting [Agreement for the Avoidance of Double Taxation], Neth.-Swed., art. 4, Apr. 25, 1952, 163 U.N.T.S. 131.

When citing to a treaty or agreement for the first time, the citation should provide the treaty’s full name. But if the full name is very long or if the treaty is commonly known by a popular name, the first citation should end with a bracketed “hereinafter” short-form citation that can be used in subsequent citations.

1 Protocol for the Prohibition of the Use in War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or Other Gases, and of Bacteriological Methods of Warfare, June 17, 1925, 26 U.S.T. 571 [hereinafter Geneva Protocol].

3 Geneva Protocol, supra note 1, at 572.

Parties to the Agreement (Rule 21.4.2)

When citing to a bilateral treaty, the citation should indicate both parties, whose names should be abbreviated according to T10 and appear in alphabetical order with a hyphen in between.

Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation, Japan-U.S., art. XI, ¶ 1, Apr. 2, 1953, 4
U.S.T. 2063.

Subdivisions (Rule 21.4.3)

When citing to only part of an agreement, or when citing an appended document, the citation should provide the subdivision or appended document. Citation to a subdivision of an agreement can include the article, paragraph, or section number instead of a pincite for the treaty series.

Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation, Japan-U.S., art. XI, ¶ 1, Apr. 2, 1953, 4
U.S.T. 2063.

Date of Signing (Rule 21.4.4)

The citation should give the exact date of signing. If multiple discrete dates of signing are given, list the first and last dates of signing, separated by an en dash. If the treaty was signed on many dates, give the date on which the treaty was open for signature, approved, ratified, or adopted,

and indicate the significance of the date in italics. Other relevant dates, such as the date on which a treaty entered into force, may be included in a parenthetical at the end of the citation.

Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation, Japan-U.S., art. XI, ¶ 1, Apr. 2, 1953, 4
U.S.T. 2063.

Agreement on Weather Stations, Colom.-U.S., Apr. 27–May 13, 1964, 15 U.S.T. 1335.

Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, opened for signature July 1, 1968, 21
U.S.T. 483, 729 U.N.T.S. 161.

U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea, opened for signature Dec. 10, 1982, 1833
U.N.T.S. 397 (entered into force Nov. 16, 1994).

Treaty Sources (Rule 21.4.5)

The Bluebook provides a list of international treaty sources in T4. The treaty source that should be used in the citation depends on whether the United States is a party to the treaty, and whether the treaty is a bilateral or multilateral treaty.

For bilateral treaties between the United States and another party, cite one of the following sources, in the following order of preference: U.S.T. (or Stat.); T.I.A.S. (or T.S., or E.A.S.); U.N.T.S.; Senate Treaty Documents or Senate Executive Documents; the Department of State Dispatch; Department of State Press Releases.

Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation, Japan-U.S., art. XI, ¶ 1, Apr. 2, 1953, 4
U.S.T. 2063.

For multilateral treaties to which the United States is a party, cite one of the U.S. domestic sources listed for bilateral treaties above, if therein. Citation of a multilateral treaty may include a parallel citation from a source published by an international organization, such as U.N.T.S., L.N.T.S., O.A.S.T.S., Pan-Am. T.S., O.J., E.T.S., or C.E.T.S.

North Atlantic Treaty art. 5, Apr. 4, 1949, 63 Stat. 2241, 34 U.N.T.S. 243.

For treaties or agreements to which the United States is not a party, cite one of the sources published by an international organization listed such as U.N.T.S., L.N.T.S., O.A.S.T.S., Pan- Am. T.S., O.J., E.T.S., or C.E.T.S., if therein. If not, cite the official source of one signatory with a parenthetical indicating the jurisdiction of the source unless it is clear from the context.

Treaty of Neutrality, Hung.-Turk., Jan. 5, 1929, 100 L.N.T.S. 137.

Agreement on Trade, Economic, and Technical Cooperation, Austl.-Oman. Oct. 20, 1981, 1982 A.T.S. 4.

If a treaty does not appear in any of the sources discussed above, cite International Legal Materials (I.L.M.). If it does not appear in I.L.M., cite another unofficial treaty source, including the websites of governments and intergovernmental organizations, electronic databases, and sources such as the Foreign Relations of the United States series, Parry’s Consolidated Treaty Series, Hein’s microfiche treaty service, and Martens Nouveau Recueil. If none of these sources works, cite a book (Rule 15), periodical, (Rule 16), or online source (Rule 18).

Olivos Protocol for the Settlement of Disputes in Mercosur art. 6, Feb. 18, 2002, 42 I.L.M. 2.

Agreement Concerning Payments for Certain Losses Suffered During World War II, Fr.- U.S., Jan. 18, 2001, Temp. State Dep’t No. 01-36, 2001 WL 416465.

II. INTERNATIONAL LAW CASES

Citation for an international law case largely follows rule 10 but is slightly modified. In general, it includes the following information: (1) name of the case, (2) case number, (3) reporter, if any,
(4) characterization of the decision, (5) pincite, and (6) parenthetical with the date, prefaced by the name of the court if it is not evident from the citation. A decision can be characterized as judgment, order, advisory opinion, provisional measures, among others. Paragraph numbers, rather than page numbers, should be used for a pincite in an international law case.

Prosecutor v. Tadi?, Case No. IT-94-1-l, Decision on Defence Motion for Interlocutory Appeal on Jurisdiction, ¶ 70 (Int’l Crim. Trib. for the Former Yugoslavia Oct. 2, 1995).

However, the information that should be included in the citation changes depending on which court the case is in. The Bluebook provides examples of citation for cases before the following courts: International Court of Justice (or Permanent Court of International Justice), European Union Courts, European Court of Human Rights, Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, Inter- American Court of Human Rights, International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, and International Criminal Court and other international criminal tribunals.

A. International Court of Justice/Permanent Court of International Justice (Rule 21.5.1)

Citation of a case before the International Court of Justice or its predecessor, the Permanent Court of International Justice, includes the following information: (1) case name, (2) parties’ names, if any, (3) characterization of the decision, if relevant, (4) volume and name of the publication in which the decision is found, (5) page or case number, (6) pincite, if any, and (7) date.

The case name should omit the word “Case” and articles but should not abbreviate the names of countries.

Continental Shelf
Not: Case Concerning the Continental Shelf

The parties’ names are abbreviated according to T10 and appear in a parenthetical immediately following the case name. When a dispute is brought by one country against another, the parties’ names are separated by “v.” but when the parties reach a special agreement to bring a case, the names are separated by a slash. No parties are listed for advisory opinions.

Military and Paramilitary Activities in and Against Nicaragua (Nicar. v. U.S.), Judgment, 1986 I.C.J. Rep. 14, ¶ 190 (June 27).

Delimitation of Maritime Boundary in Gulf of Maine Area (Can./U.S.), Judgment, 1982
I.C.J. Rep. 560, ¶ 22 (Nov. 5).

The volume of the publication is identified by year. Cite to Reports of Judgments, Advisory Opinions and Orders (I.C.J.) for the International Court of Justice and cite to the seven series of
P.C.I.J. (A through F, including A/B) for the Permanent Court of International Justice. I.C.J. cases are cited to the page on which they begin and P.C.I.J. cases are cited by number. Pincites should refer to specific paragraphs, if available, or pages. The date includes the month and day but not the year.

Reservations to Convention on Prevention and Punishment of Crime of Genocide, Advisory Opinion, 1951 I.C.J. Rep. 15 (May 28).

Diversion of Water from Meuse (Neth. v. Belg.), Judgment, 1937 P.C.I.J. (ser. A/B) No. 70, at 7 (June 28).

I.C.J. materials that have not been published, but are available online, may be cited to International Legal Materials (I.L.M.) or to the I.C.J. website.

Maritime Delimitation in Black Sea (Rom. v. Ukr.), Judgment, ¶ 5 (Feb. 3, 2009), https://www.icj-cij.org/files/case-related/132/132-20090203-JUD-01-00-Bl.pdf.

B. European Union Courts (Rule 21.5.2)

Citation of a case before the Court of Justice of the European Union, formerly the Court of Justice of the European Communities, or the General Court, formerly the Court of First Instance, includes the following information: (1) case number, (2) parties’ names, and (3) official reports of the Court, including the year of decision.

Cases lodged before the Court of Justice since 1989 will contain the prefix “C” in the case name while older cases will not have a prefix. Cases lodged before the General Court will carry the prefix “T.” The parties’ names are abbreviated according to rule 10.2 and T6. Additionally, if the Commission, Council, or Parliament of the European Union is one of the parties, give its name as “Commission,” “Council,” or “Parliament.” Cite to Reports of Cases Before the Court of Justice of the European Communities (E.C.R.) for pre-1990 cases and cite to Reports of Cases Before the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance (also E.C.R.) for post-1990 cases. The year should come before the reporter abbreviation.

Case T-198/98, Micro Leader Bus. v. Comm’n, 1999 E.C.R. II-3989.

Case C-213/89, The Queen v. Sec’y of State for Transp. ex parte Factortame Ltd., 1990
E.C.R. I-2433.

Case 58/69, Elz v. Comm’n, 1970 E.C.R. 507.

C. European Court of Human Rights (Rule 21.5.3)

For cases decided after 2015, cite to the European Court of Human Right’s official website, HUDOC (http://www.echr.coe.int). Citations should include the following information: (1) the parties’ names (abbreviated according to rule 10.2), (2) the application number for the case, (3) a pincite, (4) the date, and (5) the document URL.

S.M. v. Croatia, App. No. 60561/14, ¶ 81 (July 19, 2018), http://hudoc.echr.coe.int/eng?i=001-184665.

For cases pre-2015, the citation includes the following information: (1) case name, (2) volume number, (3) reporter, (4) page number, if applicable, and (5) year.

Cite to European Court of Human Rights, Reports of Judgment and Decisions (Eur. Ct. H.R.) but older decisions may also be cited to the series of Publications of the European Court of Human Rights (e.g., Eur. Ct. H.R. (ser. A)) or Yearbook of the European Convention on Human Rights (Y.B. Eur. Conv. on H.R.). For some earlier volumes that contain only one case, the beginning page does not need to be included and page numbers may be indicated directly by “at.”

Papon v. France (No. 2), 2001-XII Eur. Ct. H.R. 235. Kampanis v. Greece, 318 Eur. Ct. H.R. 29, 35 (1995).
Ireland v. United Kingdom, 23 Eur. Ct. H.R. (ser. B) at 23 (1976).

D. Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (Rule 21.5.4)

Citation of a case before the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights includes the following information: (1) case name, (2) case number, (3) volume name, (4) reporter number, including the year of decision, (5) series and docket numbers, (6) paragraph number, if applicable, and (7) year of the reporter. Cite to Annual Report of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (Inter-Am. Comm’n H.R.).

Tortrino v. Argentina, Case 11.597, Inter-Am. Comm’n H.R., Report No. 7/98, OEA/Ser.L./V/II.98, doc. 7 rev. ¶ 15 (1997).

E. Inter-American Court of Human Rights (Rule 21.5.5)

Citation of a case before the Inter-American Court of Human Rights includes the following information: (1) case name, (2) volume number, (3) series, (4) case number, (5) page number, if necessary, and (6) date. Cite to Inter-American Court of Human Rights (Inter-Am. Ct. H.R.). The citation should include additional information depending on whether the cited material is advisory opinion, contentious case, provisional measures, or compliance with judgment.

For advisory opinions, the citation should include the name of the opinion, followed by “Advisory Opinion” and opinion code. Cite to Series A.

Restrictions to the Death Penalty (Arts. 4(2) and 4(4) American Convention on Human Rights), Advisory Opinion OC-3/83, Inter-Am. Ct. H.R. (ser. A) No. 3, ¶ 70 (Sept. 8, 1983).

For citation of contentious cases, the case name should be followed by the matter of decision and the type of opinion. Cite to Series C.

Baldeon-Garcia v. Peru, Merits, Reparations, and Costs, Judgment, Inter-Am. Ct. H.R. (ser. C) No. 147, ¶ 169 (Apr. 6, 2006).

For provisional measures, the citation should include the name of the case or matter, followed by “Provisional Measures” and the type of opinion. When citing to the print reports, cite to Series E with the volume number and the first page of decision. The section name must also appear in quotes. When citing an online version, cite the section name in quotes, the pincite, the court, the date, and the website URL.

Bámaca Velázquez v. Guatemala, Provisional Measures, Order of the Court, Inter-Am. Ct.
H.R. (ser. E) No. 4, at 1, “Decides,” ¶ 2 (Sept. 5, 2001).

Mendoza Prisons Regarding Argentina, Provisional Measures, Order of the President of the Court, “Having Seen,” ¶ 21 (Inter-Am. Ct. H.R. Aug. 22, 2007) www.corteidh.or.cr/docs/ medidas/penitenciarimendoza_se_04_ing.pdf.

For compliances with judgment, the citation should include the case name, followed by “Monitoring Compliance with Judgment” and the type of opinion. When citing the print reports, include the volume number, report name, first page of decision, and section name. When citing an online version, cite the section name in quotes, the pincite, the court, the date, and the website URL.

Genie Lacayo v. Nicaragua, Monitoring Compliance with Judgment, Order of the Court, 1998 Rep. Inter-Am. Ct. H.R. 335, “Resolves,” ¶ 1 (Aug. 29, 1998).

270 Workers v. Panama, Monitoring Compliance with Judgment, Order of the President of the Court, “Considering,” ¶ 14 (Inter-Am. Ct. H.R. Feb 11, 2008) www.corteidh.or.cr/docs/supervisiones/baena_11_02_08_ing.pdf.

F. International Tribunal For The Law of The Sea (Rule 21.5.6)

Citation of a case before the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea includes the following information: (1) case name, (2) parties’ names, (3) case number, (4) type of ruling and date (5) volume number, (6) publication name, (7) page number, and (8) pincite, if any. The parties’ names are abbreviated according to T10 and appear in a parenthetical. Cite to International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea Reports of Judgments, Advisory Opinions and Orders (ITLOS Rep.).

M/V Saiga (No. 2) (St. Vincent v. Guinea), Case No. 2, Order of Jan. 20, 1998, 2 ITLOS Rep. 4, 5.

When print reports are unavailable cite to the Tribunal’s official website.

M/V Louisa (St. Vincent v. Spain), Case No. 18, Order 2011/1 of Jan. 12, 2011, http://www.itlos.org/fileadmin/itlos/documents/cases/case_no_18_merits/18_order_12011_ en.pdf.

G. International Criminal Court and Other Tribunals (Rule 21.5.7)

Citation of a case before international criminal tribunals, including the International Criminal Court, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia, the Special Court for Sierra Leone, and the Special Tribunal for Lebanon, includes the following information: (1) case name, (2) case number, (3) type of ruling, (4) paragraph number, if necessary, and (5) date. The case name should include only one party on each side of the “v.” and only the last name of individuals. The type of ruling should include only the last name of judges, if applicable. Also, the tribunal’s name should be indicated before the date, if not included in the case number.

Prosecutor v. Katanga, ICC-01/04-01/07-3436-AnxI, Minority Opinion of Judge Wyngaert,
¶ 320 (Mar. 7, 2014).

Many cases can be found on official websites and should be cited pursuant to rule 18.1.

Prosecutor v. Gombo, Case No. ICC-001/05-01/08, Warrant of Arrest, ¶ 22 (May 23, 2008), http://www.icc-cpi.int/iccdocs/doc/doc535163.pdf.

III. INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATIONS AND CLAIMS COMMISSIONS

A citation of a decision by an arbitral tribunal or claims commission generally follows the citation rules for international law cases discussed above, with a few modifications. A citation should include the following information: (1) name of the parties, (2) reporter, (3) pincite, if available, and (4) parenthetical with the date, prefaced by the name of the court or tribunal if it is not identified in the name of the reporter.

If adversarial parties are named, the parties’ name would appear like a case name. If not, the citation should include the name of the first-party plaintiff or the subject matter if no name is available. The countries involved in the arbitration should be indicated in a parenthetical, if available and otherwise not evident from the citation. Arbitral awards should be cited to the official source, if available. T5 provides a list of frequently cited arbitral reporters and claims commissions.

Amoco Int’l Fin. Corp. v. Iran, 15 Iran-U.S. Cl. Trib. Rep. 189 (1987).

N. Atl. Coast Fisheries (U.K. v. U.S.), 11 R.I.A.A. 167, 196 (Perm. Ct. Arb. 1910).

For International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) awards, the citation should include the full diplomatic names for each country involved. If relevant, a description of the type of decision or ruling should follow the case number.

Société Générale de Surveillance S.A. v. Republic of the Phil. ICSID Case No. ARB/02/6, Objections to Jurisdiction, ¶ 154 (Jan. 29, 2004), 8 ICSID Rep. 518 (2005).

If a source is not available in a traditional print source, an internet source may be used pursuant to rule 18.1.

In re Account of Gafner, Case No. CV96-4849, Certified Award, at 2 (Claims Resolution Trib. 2006), http://www.crt-ii.org/_awards/_apdfs/Gafner_Elisabeth.pdf.



EVERYTHING YOU WANTED TO KNOW THAT THE BLUEBOOK DOES NOT TELL YOU CLEARLY

© 2021 The Writing Center at GULC. All Rights Reserved.*

Legal citation differs from any other type in academic scholarship or writing. At times, the Bluebook can seem confusing, frustrating, time-consuming to use, and intimidating. However, legal citations tell your reader a great deal of information about the cited source. Careful adherence to the Bluebook can improve the clarity and conciseness of your writing and demonstrate your credibility as a legal writer. Consider these basic practitioner’s tips to help conquer those Bluebook fears. The following rules are not only used most often but misused most often too!

Consult the Bluebook in conjunction with these tips; many subtleties that are not set out below may apply to each rule. These tips are based on the 21st edition of the Bluebook.

1. Spacing (Rule 6.1) (B6)

In academic writing, close up all adjacent single capitals. Do not close up single capitals with longer abbreviations. Numbers, both ordinal and cardinal, are treated as single capitals.

Right	Wrong

W.D. Pa.	W.D.Pa.
F. Supp.	F.Supp.
S. Ct.	S.Ct.
F. 2d	F.2d
Cal. App. 3d	Cal.App.3d

In practitioner writing, such as briefs and other court documents, abbreviations in reporter names may now be closed up to conserve the number of words used. Thus, the reporter “S. Ct.” may now be written as either “S. Ct.” or “S.Ct.” This change was introduced in the 21st edition, so it is likely some judges and practicing attorneys are not aware of the update. Always be sure to check with your supervising attorney as to their preferences on spacing.

2. Capitalization (Rule 8) (B.7.3.1)

In headings, capitalize the initial word, any word that immediately follows a colon, and all other words except articles, conjunctions, and prepositions of four or fewer letters. However, in all text, capitalize nouns referring to people or groups only when they refer to specific persons,

offices, or bodies. The same applies to words such as “act,” or “circuit,”: capitalize them only when they refer to a specific act, circuit, or when referring to a circuit by name or number.

Right

We adhere to the Second Circuit’s ruling, rather than follow other circuits’ ambiguous precedent.

With respect to the word “court,” capitalize when naming any court in full, or when referring to the U.S. Supreme Court. You should also capitalize “Court” in a court document when referring to the court that will be receiving that document.

Right

Defendant’s reliance on the District Court of Maryland’s holding concerning the lack of prior notice was misplaced because the state supreme court has held that prior notice is not required.

3. Order of Signals (Rule 1.3).

When you use more than one signal in a citation string, the signals should be listed in the order in which they appear in Rule 1.2, so that see would precede see also, etc. Additionally, signals of the same type (i.e., all signals indicating support, comparison, contradiction, or the provision of background information) should be strung together in a single citation sentence, using semicolons to separate them. However, different types of signals (i.e., contradictory authority cited after supporting authority) must be grouped in separate citation sentences. See the Writing Center Handout Bluebook Signals Explained for more information on how to use signals.

Right

See Smith v. California, 479 U.S. 121 (1990); cf. Jackson v. Herrick, 59 F. Supp. 853 (1978).
But see Rand v. Olympia, 588 U.S. 43 (1994).

Of course, every good rule has an exception: if the authorities you cite support only a part of your sentence and are, in accordance with Rule 1.1, cited in a citation clause following that part and set of by commas, the citation clause can contain signals of different groups without the need for separate sentences. Thus, citation clauses can contain both supporting and contradictory authority, separated only by a semicolon.

4. Order of Authorities Within Each Signal (Rule 1.4)

In the 21st Edition, Rule 1.4 allows substantial flexibility in how to order authorities within each signal. Authorities should be ordered in a logical manner. For example, if a case is substantially more helpful to or authoritative on your premise, that case can be cited first even if it is older than other cases within the signal.

Previous editions of The Bluebook required authorities to be listed in a specific order by type, unless a particular authority was especially helpful. For example, constitutions were listed before statutes. Cases from the same court were listed in chronological order. Not all practitioners may be aware of the change, and some may wish to adhere to the previous rule. Check with your supervisor about whether your office follows a particular standard.

5. Page Ranges (Rules 3.2, 3.3)

When citing to sources that span more than one page, retain the last two digits, and drop the other repetitious digits. This rule does not apply when citing multiple sections of statutes or regulations. Separate the inclusive page numbers with an en dash (–) or hyphen (-); there are no spaces between the numerals and the en dash.

100 U.S. 101, 111–12 (1999).
100 U.S. 1090, 1099–101 (1999).
17 U.S.C. §§ 1924–1999.
Del. Code Ann. Tit. 9 §§ 817-819 (1989).

6. Short Citations for Cases (Rules 4, 10.9)

The following are appropriate short citations for Anzidei v. Pitts Inc., 5 F.2d 20, 24 (5th Cir. 1950):

Right	Wrong
Anzidei, 5 F.2d at 24.	Anzidei, at 24.
5 F.2d at 24. [when the name of the case is mentioned in the text]
Id. at 24. [when the immediately preceding cite is to Anzidei and it is not a string cite.]

See Rule 10.9 for when to use each of the appropriate short citations.

7. Parentheticals (Rule 1.5)

Parentheticals are a useful means of conveying the relevance of cited materials, especially when the purpose of the cite would otherwise be unclear. Explanatory parenthetical phrases should begin with a present participle.

See Wilsey v. Beyer Mut. Life Ins., 10 U.S. 200 (1921) (holding that the eyesight damage from law school was not recoverable under the Georgetown health plan).

Note the space between the year and the parenthetical phrase. See examples in Rule 1.5.

8. General Format for Parenthetical Information (Rule 1.5).

You have probably been told repeatedly that it is important to include parenthetical information when you cite to cases or other authority to allow the reader to understand why and how the authority is relevant to the point you are making. And, of course, The Bluebook provides you with detailed rules about how to format your parentheticals.

The general rule is that parentheticals should start with a lower-case present participle such as “holding,” or “finding” and end without punctuation, such as: (holding that defendant should have been given Miranda warnings). This general rule, however, has two exceptions:

First, if your parenthetical directly quotes at least one full sentence, it should begin with a capital letter and contain the appropriate closing punctuation, i.e., in most cases, a period.

Second, you can use a shorter parenthetical where a complete phrase starting with a present participle is unnecessarily complex. This applies, for example, where you list a number of situations in which courts have addressed various permutations of the same point, as in the following example: See also Smith v. Doe, 999 F.3d 9999 (14th Cir. 2002) (direct review); Jones
v. Doe, 888 F.3d 8888 (14th Cir. 2002) (collateral review).

When a single citation contains multiple parentheticals, place them in this order:

(date) [hereinafter short name] (en banc) (Lastname, J., concurring) (plurality opinion) (per curiam) (alternation in original) (emphasis added) (footnote omitted) (citations omitted) (quoting another source) (internal quotation marks omitted) (citing another source), http://www.domainname.com (last visited) (explanatory parenthetical), prior or subsequent history.

9. State Abbreviations

Geographical terms are listed in Table 10 of the Bluebook.

When citing to a decision published in a federal or regional reporter, the court that handed down that decision must be cited. Look at the case heading to figure out what court is “speaking.” Then consult Table 10 and Table 7 to cite the case appropriately.

Right

Howard Fin. Grp. v. Roche, 233 A.2d 33 (Pa. Super. Ct. 1983). McCarthy v. Leeds Equip. Coop., 197 F. Supp. 297 (S.D.N.Y. 1994).

10. Lexis/Westlaw Citation (Rule 10.8.1)

When citing to an electronic database, provide the case name, docket number, database identifier, court name, and full date. Abbreviations for months are located in Table 12.

Right

Martin v. Brez Mach. Co., No. CIV.A.98-1234, 1998 WL 98765, at *2 (S.D.N.Y. Feb. 3, 1998).
Coulter v. Sontag, Inc., No. 96-6789, 1997 U.S. App. LEXIS 5864, at *7 n.4 (1st Cir. Mar. 1, 1997).

Screen pages are indicated by an asterisk. Pages from other reporters that have published the opinion usually also are marked. If you are citing to the pages from reporters that have published the opinion, do not place asterisks in the citation.

A case is not published if it is only available on-line. If the opinion is published, then it is preferable to cite to that version, rather than the one on Lexis or Westlaw.

Short Cites Examples for Westlaw/Lexis:

Martin, 1998 WL 98765, at *1.
Coulter, 1997 U.S. App. LEXIS 5864, at *6–7.



PARENTHETICALS?
© 2016 The Writing Center at GULC. All Rights Reserved.

         Law students see parentheticals in judicial opinions, memos, briefs, restatements, law review articles, and other secondary sources. Some parentheticals are designed to make legal writing more detailed, while others might be intended to make legal writing more concise. Using parentheticals can often enhance your credibility with your legal audience. But an ill-conceived or improperly placed parenthetical can disrupt the flow of an argument or impair the reader's understanding of your text. This handout is designed to help you balance the risks and the rewards.

Parenthetical Precision

What a parenthetical is:
A parenthetical is an explanatory phrase included in parentheses at the end of a legal citation. Parenthetical use is governed in part by the Bluebook and in part by our own writing objectives.
When to use parentheticals (Bluebook Rule 1.2):
Rule 1.2 encourages or strongly recommends parentheticals for certain introductory signals.

Parentheticals. . . when you useExamplesare . . .this signal

Encouraged

See alsoThe court’s order must be clear and unambiguous tosupport a civil contempt finding. In re Gen. Motors Corp.,61 F.3d 256, 258 (4th Cir. 1995); see also In re Dyer, 322F.3d 1178, 1191 (9th Cir. 2003) (holding that civilcontempt requires the court’s order be “specific anddefinite”).The doctrine of state sovereign immunity has a checkeredhistory. See generally John Smith, Administrative Law andSee generallyPractice, 210, 215-17 (2d ed. 1985)(tracing the history of state sovereign immunity from the EnglishStronglyCf.common law to the present).The defendant’s consultation with the court clerk beforeRecommendedCompare . . . withviolating the court’s order demonstrates a lack of criminal
But cf.willfulness. Cf. Burd v. Walters, 868 F.2d 665, 668 (4thCir. 1989) (noting that advice of counsel may be a defensein a criminal contempt proceeding because it negates theelement of willfulness).
? Revised in 2016 by Karl Bock, based on 2010 revision by Eric Nitz.

The use of parentheticals is either encouraged or strongly recommended with these signals because the relevance of the citation will often only make sense if it is explained. When you use these signals, parentheticals will help your reader understand the application of your citation to your argument.

Parentheticals in Practice (Bluebook Rule 1.5):

1. How to Phrase Parentheticals. Parenthetical explanations are generally phrases that begin with a present participle, which is a verb that ends with “ing.” The present participle that begins the parenthetical is never capitalized. If the meaning is clear from context, a short descriptive parenthetical may be used rather than a phrase beginning with a present participle.
Example: See De Long v. Hennessey, 912 F.2d 1144, 1147 (9th Cir. 1990) (remanding pre-filing injunction for failure to show that filings were numerous or abusive).
2. The Use of Quotations in Parentheticals. Parentheticals often include quotations from the cited source, and in general Rule 1.5 concerning how to phrase parentheticals applies. However, if the parenthetical explanation consists entirely of a quotation of one or more full sentences (or part of a sentence that reads as a full sentence) then the following rules apply: the first word of the parenthetical should be capitalized, and the parenthetical should include the closing punctuation of the quoted sentence.
Example: United State v. Neal, 101 F.3d 993, 997 (4th. Cir. 1996) (“[I]ndirect contempt may never be punished summarily, but rather requires adherence to more normal adversary procedures.”).
3. Where Parentheticals Fit in the Citation Clause or Sentence. Explanatory parentheticals come after parentheticals explaining weight of authority, such as (per curiam) or (Scalia, J. dissenting), and before any citation of subsequent history or other related authority.
Example: Wolf v. Colorado, 338 U.S. 25, 47 (1949) (Rutledge, J. dissenting) (rejecting the Court’s conception of the exclusionary rule), aff’g 187 P.2d 926 (Colo. 1947), overruled by Mapp v. Ohio, 367 U.S. 643 (1961).
Thankfully, the Bluebook spells out the order in which different parentheticals should appear in the citation in Rule 1.5(b):
(date) [hereinafter short name] (en banc) (Lastname, J., concurring) (plurality opinion) (per curiam) (alternation in original) (emphasis added) (footnote omitted) (citations omitted) (quoting another source) (internal quotation marks omitted) (citing another

source), http://www.domainname.com (explanatory parenthetical), prior or subsequent history.

When you have multiple parentheticals, consult the paragraph above and see which parentheticals are applicable to your citation.

Parenthetical Possibilities

Here are some examples of when parentheticals are most appropriate:

Explaining related authority: Often you may cite to a source for a particular proposition and wish to show that other sources also lend some support to this proposition. Depending on the situation, you may introduce these additional sources with a see also or cf. signal.

Example: The Court has held that the Second Amendment protects an individual right to keep and bear arms. See District of Columbia v. Heller, 554 U.S. 570, 595 (2008); see also McDonald v. City of Chicago, 561 U.S. 742, 749 (2010) (applying the Second Amendment to the States).
Explaining the factual or legal context: A reader may benefit from this kind of added “background,” particularly when an extended analysis of the case is not necessary or appropriate. A parenthetical about the procedural posture or relevant facts of a case can help bolster your argument and show your reader that you are using the case appropriately.
Example: Enjoining a litigant from filing is an extremely harsh sanction to be used only in exigent circumstances. See De Long v. Hennessey, 912 F.2d 1144, 1147 (9th Cir. 1990) (remanding pre-filing injunction for failure to show that filings were numerous or abusive).
Using a Group of Cases: Parentheticals are particularly useful when the proposition you are putting forward is supported by a line of cases or is based on distinctions among a group of cases. When you intend to highlight either the similarities or differences between a group of cases, parentheticals can be a very efficient way to do this. Be careful that your use of parentheticals does not take the place of a more extended case comparison when such a comparison is warranted. Notice how the following example uses parentheticals that are short but sufficiently detailed for the context in which they are used.

Example: Where a plea bargain or plea bargain-like agreement has been reached through a fair negotiation, the Ninth Circuit may allow that agreement to be interpreted utilizing contract law principles. See United States v. Chiu, 109 F.3d 624 (9th Cir. 1997) (proffer agreements); United States v. Partida-Parra, 859 F.3d 629 (9th Cir. 1988) (plea agreements); United States v. Irvine, 756 F.2d 708 (9th Cir.
1985) (cooperation-immunity agreements); United States v. Carillo, 709 F.3d 624 (9th Cir. 1983) (cooperation agreements).

Quoting language from a controlling authority: Extensive quoting in your main text may tend to break up the flow of your argument. You may want to include quotations from the controlling authority in parentheticals. Many readers appreciate that you have given them the words used by the authority. Consider, however, that if the quotation is particularly important, it may be better to include it in your main text, where it can be highlighted for the reader. Here is an example of the effective use of quotations in a parenthetical.

Example: While direct contempt can be punished summarily by the judge, indirect contempt can only be heard on notice and with procedural regularity. United State v. Neal, 101 F.3d 993, 997 (4th. Cir. 1996) (“[I]ndirect contempt may never be punished summarily, but rather requires adherence to more normal adversary procedures.”).

Parenthetical Pitfalls

Before you decide to explain a case in a parenthetical, consider the following:

Pitfall #1: Parentheticals are a poor substitute for legal analysis. Parentheticals can provide an efficient means of communicating basic information about a source. However, parentheticals do not explain the relationship of the law to your set of facts as effectively as express legal analysis and may even detract from your central point. Read the following passage to yourself:

Sample
The commonplace item that Fox saw, a keychain with the victim's etched initial, lacks features of immediately apparent contraband such as drugs or weapons. See D.C. Code Ann. § 33-564 (2000) (allowing warrantless seizures of controlled substances); United States v. Barckstrom, 252 A.2d 909, 910 (D.C. 1969) (noting that drugs and weapons are immediately apparent contraband). Commonplace items, even with suspicious identification, receive less deference. See Bynum, 386 A.2d at 687-88 (noting that tape recorder etched with name and address that searching officer recognized from robbery report was not immediately apparent contraband, in full probable cause analysis after holding seizure illegal because officer lacked legal access); Gant v. United States, 518 A.2d 103, 109 (D.C. 1981) (holding that clothing that matched suspect's profile "was not obvious" evidence). Similarly, the keychain lacks immediately incriminating features . . . .

The writer refers to statutes and cases that seem to relate to her argument, but her use of parentheticals prevents her from expressly connecting the law to the facts of her case. Now look at the same argument after removing the parentheticals and weaving the law and facts together:

Parenthetical-free Sample

Fox’s warrantless seizure of the keychain with the victim's etched initial was illegal. D.C. law permits the warrantless seizure of immediately apparent contraband, such as controlled substances, see D.C. Code Ann. § 33-564 (2015), and weapons, see United States v. Backstrom, 252 A.2d 909, 910 (D.C. 1969). However, courts are far less likely to uphold the warrantless seizure of commonplace items—even where those items bear suspicious identification. For example, in Bynum, an officer seized a tape recorder etched with a name and address that he recognized from a robbery report. The court declined to find that the tape recorder was immediately apparent contraband sufficient to support probable cause, and held that the seizure was illegal because the officer lacked legal access to the goods. Bynum, 386 A.2d at 687–88. Similarly, in Gant v. United States, 518 A.2d 103, 109 (D.C. 1981), the court held that clothing that matched the suspect’s “was not obvious” enough evidence to generate probable cause to arrest. Just as the tape recorder in Bynum and the clothing in Gant were commonplace items lacking immediately incriminating features, so too is the keychain at issue in this case
. . . .

By removing the parentheticals, the writer's analysis becomes clearer to the reader, and her argument is more forceful.
Pitfall #2: Parentheticals can interrupt the flow of your argument. Now go back to the first sample passage and read it aloud. Did you pause every time you encountered a parenthetical? Was it difficult to keep track of how the argument was progressing?
Parentheticals can disrupt the momentum of your argument if inserted carelessly.
Pitfall #3: Parenthetical text might be ignored by the busy reader. When writing your memo or brief, remember that your audience likely will be a busy attorney or judge. You can use this to your advantage. Because you know ahead of time that your reader may be impatient, why encourage her to skim—or even skip over—important pieces of your analysis? Try to compel your reader to absorb every part of your argument. Placing information in a parenthetical, rather than incorporating it into your main text, may send your reader a message that “this information is not very important.”

Putting it all Together: Should I Use a Parenthetical?

Before drafting a parenthetical, think about the following:

1. Know your audience.
• Does the lawyer, judge, or professor for whom you are writing have a preference regarding the use of parentheticals? The more you know about their “parenthetical preferences,” the better-equipped you will be to use a parenthetical to your advantage.

2. Which signal precedes the citation?
* Remember that parentheticals are encouraged when using the see also signal and strongly recommended when using see generally, cf., compare, and but cf.

3. What role does the cited source play in my analysis?
• If the source is central to your main argument, you probably should discuss it in the main text and avoid disposing of it in a parenthetical.
• If the source lends further support, but is not central to your analysis, a see also or cf.
citation, followed by a parenthetical might be appropriate.
• If your reader will not understand why you cited a source unless you identify that source’s factual or legal context, you should either provide that context in a parenthetical or discuss that source in your text.
• If you use the source to emphasize similarities to or distinctions from other cited sources, a parenthetical might be appropriate.

4. Will using a parenthetical clarify or disrupt the flow of my document?
* Thanks to word processing technology, it’s easy to have your parenthetical-laden text and a parenthetical-free version side by side. Spend a few minutes absorbing this contrast. Do some clarify more than others? Are some more disruptive than others?





SOME COMMON AND OBSCURE BLUEBOOK ERRORS, OR HOW TO REALLY IMPRESS EVEN THE MOST EXACTING BLUEBOOKER

© 2021 The Writing Center at GULC. All Rights Reserved.*

Before you started law school, you had probably never heard of The Bluebook. Or even if you had, you probably never imagined you would spend so much time “Bluebooking” as part of legal writing! But as you now know, proper Bluebook citation can help create a good first impression, whether in a writing sample or the Journal write-on competition.

To help you make that strong first impression, here is a list of some of the most common Bluebook rules to make a mistake on—and how to avoid those mistakes! Errors in the application of these (and other) Bluebook rules are apparent to experienced Bluebookers such as journal editors, judges and their law clerks, and law firm recruiters and partners. Thus, it may be worthwhile to familiarize yourself with some of these rules.

You may want to examine this list in conjunction with your Bluebook, which contains additional examples and citation tips. And note that these rules were chosen based on personal editing and writing experience. As you spend more time looking through the Bluebook, you may come up with your own list of particularly difficult Bluebook rules!

1. Capitalization (Rule 8 / B8).

In headings, capitalize the initial word, any word that immediately follows a colon, and all other words except articles, conjunctions, and prepositions of four or fewer letters (unless they begin the heading or title, or immediately follow a colon).

In all text, capitalize nouns referring to people or groups only when they refer to specific persons, offices, or bodies. The same applies to words such as “act,” “circuit,” or “court”: capitalize them only when they refer to a specific act, circuit, etc., but not when they are used as a generic reference. Thus, you would write that “on February 19, 2021, the U.S. District Court for the District of Rhode Island ruled in this case” but that “district courts are bound by the rulings of the circuit court of the circuit to which they belong.” But note—you must always capitalize Court when referring to the U.S. Supreme Court.

Finally, when writing a document for a particular court, per B8, capitalize “Court” when referring to the court you are writing to.

* Revised by Richard Bernache and Halle Edwards in 2021, based on a revision by John Secaras in 2017.

2. The Appearance of “quoted in” versus “quoting” (Rule 1.5, 1.6(c)).

Often, you want to indicate that a particular case or authority either is quoted in or quotes another authority. If you use “quoted in,” per Rule 1.6(c), the phrase follows the citation, is separated from it by a comma, and is underlined (memo) or italicized (memo or law review): Catlin v.
United States, 324 U.S. 229, 233 (1945), quoted in Gelboim v. Bank of Am. Corp., 574 U.S. 405, 409 (2015).

If, however, you use “quoting,” the phrase is used in a parenthetical in plain type per Rule 1.5, and is not underlined or italicized: Gelboim v. Bank of Am. Corp., 574 U.S. 405, 409 (2015) (quoting Catlin v. United States, 324 U.S. 229, 233 (1945)).

For more guidance, consult the Writing Center handout Parentheticals.

3. Memorandum and Per Curiam Decisions (Rule 10.6.1(b)).

A memorandum decision indicates that the court has disposed of an appeal without issuing an opinion. A per curiam opinion is an unsigned opinion issued on behalf of the entire court.
Memorandum decisions and per curiam opinions generally carry less precedential weight, hence the importance of including this information in citations. Use a parenthetical if you are citing a memorandum decision or per curiam opinion: Wearry v. Cain, 577 U.S. 385 (2016) (per curiam).

4. Order of Signals (Rule 1.3).

When you use more than one signal in a citation string, the signals should be listed in the order in which they appear in Rule 1.2, so that see would precede see also, etc. Additionally, signals come in four different flavors—supportive, comparative, contradictory, and background (Rule 1.2(a)–(d)). Signals of the same type (such as accord and see) should be used together in a single citation sentence. For example: See Gelboim v. Bank of America Corp., 574 U.S. 405, 414; accord Hall v. Hall, 138 S.Ct. 1118, 1131.

Different types of signals (for example, contradictory authority after supporting authority) must be grouped in separate citation sentences. For example: See Gelboim v. Bank of America Corp., 574 U.S. 405, 414. But see McCullough v. World Wrestling Ent., Inc., 838 F.3d 210 (2d Cir.
2016) (declining to extend Gelboim’s holding to cases consolidated for all purposes).

Note this rule does not apply to signals within a citation clause. Within a citation clause, you can include citation strings with different signal types.

For more guidance on signals, consult the Writing Center’s handout Bluebook Signals Explained.

5. Order of Authorities Within Each Signal (Rule 1.4).

In the 21st Edition of The Bluebook, Rule 1.4 only counsels you to order authorities “in a logical manner.” However, previous editions of the Bluebook provided stricter guidance, and provided the following hierarchical order:

1. Constitutions, in the following order –
a. U.S. Federal Constitution
b. U.S. State Constitutions, alphabetically by state
c. Foreign, alphabetically by jurisdiction
d. Foundational documents of the U.N., League of Nations, and E.U.
2. Statutes, in the following order –
a. Federal
b. State
c. Foreign
3. Treaties and other international agreements
4. Cases, in the following order –
a. Federal (Supreme Court first, then Courts of Appeals, then District Courts)
b. State (courts alphabetical by state then ranked by state)
c. Foreign
d. International
5. Legislative Materials
6. Administrative and Executive Materials
7. Intergovernmental organizations’ resolutions, decisions, regulations
8. Records, briefs, and petitions
9. Secondary sources
10. Cross-references to authors’ own material

Note that the above list is simplified. The full text of the older Rule 1.4 is available here: https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/order_of_authorities.

Even though the current version of The Bluebook does not provide this hierarchy, practitioners, judges, and professors are used to the above list being the “logical” order. So when choosing how to order authorities within a signal, consider using the above list for guidance.

Finally, even the original Rule 1.4 allowed the most important or relevant citation to come first, despite the above list. The current iteration of 1.4 agrees: “If one authority or several authorities together are considerably more helpful or authoritative than the other authorities cited within a signal, they should precede the others.” So when choosing which authority comes first, start with the most helpful or authoritative source, even if it comes later on the list.

6. Numerals and Symbols (Rule 6.2).

Spell out the numbers zero to ninety-nine in text and footnotes. Only use numerals for 100 and higher. But if you are listing a series of numbers with values greater than and less than 100, use

numerals: “the law students read 23, 9, and 120 pages over the weekend, respectively.” Also, any number that begins a sentence must be spelled out, regardless of value.

Do not use superscripts for ordinals: write “1st,” not “1st.” While we are on the subject of ordinals, remember that for citations using ordinals that end in two or three, write 2d and 3d, not 2nd and 3rd.

7. Abbreviations for Periodical Names (T.13).

T.13 lists the names of institutions and their abbreviations (for example, “Geo.” for “Georgetown”), to use when you cite to various law journals. Sometimes, however, you will need to cite to a law journal whose institution is not listed in T.13. If that happens, you can determine the proper abbreviation for the journal’s title by finding the individual words and their respective abbreviations in T.6 and T.10. If the title contains a word that is not listed in either table, you can use the entire word. Additionally, you should omit “a,” “at,” “in,” “of,” and “the” from all abbreviated titles. Do not, however, omit “on.” Furthermore, if any of these omissions reduces the title to a single word, that word should not be abbreviated even if it is contained in
T.6 or T.10. Finally, see Rule 6.1(a) for the spacing of abbreviations.

8. General Format for Parenthetical Information (Rule 1.5).

The general rule is that parentheticals should start with a lower-case present participle such as “holding” or “finding,” and end without punctuation, such as: (holding that defendant should have been given Miranda warnings).

This general rule, however, has two exceptions:

First, if your parenthetical directly quotes at least one full sentence, it should begin with a capital letter and end with closing punctuation. But if you are only quoting a short phrase, use a present participle as described above and do not include closing punctuation.

Second, if the parenthetical does not require a full participial phrase to provide necessary context, it can just contain a short statement. For example: See also Gelboim v. Bank of America Corp., 574 U.S. 405 (2015) (Section 1407 consolidation); Hall v. Hall, 138 S.Ct. 1118 (2018) (Rule 42(a) consolidation).

When a single citation contains multiple parentheticals, place them in this order: (date) (degree- granting institution) (ProQuest) [hereinafter short name] (en banc) (Last name, J., concurring) (plurality opinion) (per curiam) (alteration in original) (emphasis added) (footnote omitted) (citations omitted) (quoting another source) (citing another source), http://www.domainname.com (last visited) (explanatory parenthetical), prior or subsequent history.

9. Formatting of Signals and Accompanying Punctuation (Rule 2.1).

Signals in citation sentences are underlined or italicized (memo) or italicized (law review). Underline or italicize commas, semicolons, and other punctuation marks only when they are part of the italicized material, and not when they are an element of the surrounding sentence. For example, the periods following “e.g.” and the first comma are italicized in a see, e.g., citation, but the second comma is not.

On the other hand, if you use signals as verbs in ordinary sentences, they are neither underlined nor italicized. This happens frequently in law review footnotes.

10. Citations to Footnotes and Endnotes (Rules 3.2(b) and 3.2(c)).

To direct your reader to a footnote, indicate the page number on which the footnote is found, followed first by a space and then by “n.” and the footnote number. There is no comma between the page number and the “n.” and no space between the “n.” and the footnote number. Thus, you would cite to Justice Stone’s famous footnote four as follows: United States v. Carolene Prods. Co., 304 U.S. 144, 153 n.4 (1938).

For endnotes, follow the same format but remember to indicate the page on which the endnote appears, not the page in the text that contains the reference to the endnote.

11. Use of “supra” and “infra” in Court Documents (Rule B4).

You may have heard that “supra” (above) and “infra” (below) should not be used in court documents. That is true—with exceptions. Because you always need to provide a full citation the first time you refer to an authority, “infra” is never used to refer to cited authority. You would use “infra” only to refer to a point that is made in a later section of your document, for example: “The district court erred because, as discussed in Part B.2 infra, the Defendant’s right to counsel had already attached.”

“Supra,” on the other hand, can be used to refer to some previously cited authorities, such as legislative hearings, court filings, books, pamphlets, reports, and periodicals (see Rule B4 for a full list). It cannot be used with cases, statutes, or constitutions.




BLUEBOOK RULE 18: CITATION TO INTERNET AND ELECTRONIC RESOURCES

© 2021 The Writing Center at GULC. All Rights Reserved.*

As a general rule, The Bluebook encourages citation to print sources when they are available. We all know, however, that the Internet contains lots of reliable legal source material, and pulling up an online database from the comfort of home is far easier than trekking to the library and wading through stacks of dusty books. Thankfully, The Bluebook recognizes this reality. It has revamped Rule 18 and liberalized citation to non-print sources—now, any online source that shares the characteristics of a print source should be cited according to the rule for the print version.

This handout focuses on citation to internet resources and will provide you with some guidance on when The Bluebook permits citation to an internet resource and how you should format that citation.1 It focuses on the use of internet citations in scholarly works. Consult the Blue Pages for information on citing to internet and electronic sources in practitioners’ documents.

Citing Directly to the Internet

Essentially, The Bluebook creates three general formats for structuring an internet citation. These three general formats are (1) citations to the hard-copy print material, (2) citations that combine the print citation with the electronic citation, and (3) citations directly to the electronic version.

Print Citation

Generally, if a print version of the source exists somewhere (even if the print version is not the material you are using), you should find and cite to the print version. Some internet sources, however, can be cited simply by using the citation format for the print version of the material. Consequently, you will not have to track down a hard copy of the print version for a proper cite. The Bluebook permits citation to the print version, even if the actual source you are using for your research is an electronic version, in three circumstances:

1. Authenticated Documents (Rule 18.2.1(a)(i)): These are electronic documents that have a certificate or logo indicating that a government entity has verified that the electronic document is complete, unaltered, and comparable to the print version. When the website or

* Revised by Richard Bernache and Halle Edwards in 2021, based on a revision by John Secaras in 2017.
1 This handout does not address direct citation to commercial databases like Lexis and Westlaw materials, which have their own citation format under Rule 18.3.

internet document you are using has such a certificate or logo, you can simply cite it as if it were a hard copy print document. Below is an example of the authentication logo used by the Government Printing Office for electronic documents posted to its website, www.gpoaccess.gov2:



2. Official Versions (Rule 18.2.1(a)(ii)): Some states now provide that the online version of a particular document is the “official” document. The Bluebook prefers authenticated documents, but an official version published only online can still be cited as if it were print material if no authenticated version exists. Massachusetts, for example, only publishes some of its recent versions of documents online as this portion of its website demonstrates3:



You could cite to these documents, published “solely in electronic form,” as if they were print material.

3. Exact Copies (Rule 18.2.1(a)(iii)): Finally, if the material posted online is an exact copy of the print material, you could cite to that document as if it were a hard copy print source. A PDF of a law review article retrieved through HeinOnline or a PDF scan from Google Books would fall within this category.

Material from a commercial database (like Lexis or Westlaw) does not preserve the original pagination and other attributes of the printed material so it cannot be cited using the normal print citation. Rather, it should be cited according to Rule 18.3 using the rules pertaining to commercial electronic databases.

Sources Including a URL

Electronic versions of sources will often be more readily accessible than print versions. While a print version remains the preferred option, any online source that shares the characteristics of a print source can be cited according to the rule for the print version. In the citation below, the substantive print citation is shown in red, while the appended electronic citation is blue:




2 You can view a full explanation of the GPO’s policies regarding authenticated electronic documents at www.gpoaccess. gov/authentication/faq.html
3 http://www.mass.gov/?pageID=afsubtopic&L=5&L0=Home&L1=Research+%26+Technology&L2=Government+ Data+%26+Documents&L3=State+Documents+%26+Resources&L4=State+Documents+Online&sid=Eoaf

John Kass, Don’t Let Science Suck Life Out of Chupacabra Story, CHI. TRIB., Mar. 31, 2011, at 2, http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/columnists/ct-met- kass-0331- 20110331,0,2711028.column.

A few comments about the structural form of this citation: First, note that only a comma follows the full print citation—The Bluebook no longer requires the use of “available at” to denote an online source. Second, note that your computer will likely create a hyperlink automatically when you type the URL in the electronic citation, turning the words royal blue and underlining them. This hyperlink is not the proper format for citation to the electronic version under Bluebook rules (see Rules 2 & 18.2.2(d)), so you should make sure to eliminate the hyperlink created when you type in the web address. In Microsoft Word, you can do this by right-clicking on the hyperlink and choosing “Remove Hyperlink” from the menu that pops up.

Electronic Citations

The Bluebook considers all internet citations to be direct. In other words, if you find an internet source that does not fit the citation format of any other Bluebook rule, you can cite the electronic source directly. Be sure to provide the most stable and most easily accessible version of the cited source—this means including any author, title, pagination, and date information as they appear in the electronic source. You can cite directly to the electronic version by simply adding the URL directly to the end of the citation. (As discussed above, be careful to remove the hyperlink that your computer might automatically generate.) Again, the substantive citation is in red, the electronic citation is blue:

Conference Report, German Soc’y for Contemporary Theatre and Drama in English, Mediated Drama/Dramatized Media: From Boards to Screens to Cyberspace (Jun. 17-20, 1999), http://fb14.uni-mainz.de/projects/CDE/ conf/1999/.

Source-Specific Formatting: Web Page Citations

Now that you have a general understanding of the different structural formats for citing to electronic sources, we can dive into the different components of a website citation. Occasionally, material will be published on the web in both an HTML version and a PDF version. When this occurs, cite to the PDF version using the citation structure described above.

A citation to an internet web page generally contains the following information:
(1) the author,
(2) the title of the web page,
(3) the title of the website,
(4) the date and time, and
(5) the URL.

Internet pages, unfortunately, come in a wide array of formats and styles. As a consequence, some of these components might not be present on the page you are citing. The following examples provide more details about each component of the citation.

1. Author (Rule 18.2.2(a))

If the web page denotes an author, list the author’s name in ordinary type:

Eric Posner, More on Section 7 of the Torture Convention, VOLOKH CONSPIRACY (Jan. 29, 2009, 10:04 AM), http://www.volokh.com/2009/01/29/more-on-section- 7-of-the-torture-convention.

If the web page has no named author, but the website has a clear institutional owner, use the name of the institutional owner in the spot for the author’s name (Example 1) unless the institutional owner is clear from the title of the website (Example 2). When the website lacks a named author or clear institutional author, omit the author section completely:

Example 1: Kraft Foods, Chocolate Turtle Cheesecake, WWW.KRAFTRECIPES.COM, http://www.kraftrecipes.com/recipes/chocolate- turtle-cheesecake-112859.aspx (last visited Apr. 11, 2011).

Example 2: The Butterfly Conservatory, AM MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, http://www.amnh.org/exhibitions/butterflies/?src=h_h (last visited Feb. 1, 2009).

When citing to a specific comment or posting, list the username of the commenter or poster as the author rather than the author of the original piece:

Martinned, Comment to More on Section 7 of the Torture Convention, VOLOKH CONSPIRACY (Jan. 29, 2009, 11:02 AM), http://www.volokh.com/posts/1233 241458.shtml.

For citations to social media feeds, include the author’s name if it is discernible and verified. If the platform lets authors employ a username or handle when posting, include the username or handle in parentheses immediately after the author name (Example 1). If the author name is not discernible and verified, you can use only the username or handle (Example 2). After including any author information, you should provide the title of the post (when applicable) and the name of the social media platform (Example 3):

Example 1: Wendy Davis (@wendydavistexas), INSTAGRAM, http://instagram.com/ wendydavistexas (last visited May 20, 2014).

Example 2: @LegalRebels, TWITTER (Mar. 24, 2014, 10:36 AM), https://twitter.com/LegalRebels/status/448151433222062080.

Example 3: November Project, The Bubble Is GONE!, FACEBOOK (Mar. 19, 2014), https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.516646258443810.107374
1983.2464490 15463537&type=1


2. Title of Web Page (Rule 18.2.2(b))

The citation should also include the title of the specific page to which you are citing. You can find the title in the title bar of your web-browser or from a clearly announced heading on the page. Italicize this title, and capitalize it according to Rule 8 (regardless of how the web page or title bar capitalize the title):

Eric Posner, More on Section 7 of the Torture Convention, VOLOKH CONSPIRACY (Jan. 29, 2009, 10:04 AM), http://www.volokh.com/posts/1233241458.shtml.

When citing to a specific posting or comment within an article, say so in the title section of the citation. Importantly, this annotation should not be italicized:

Martinned, Comment to More on Section 7 of the Torture Convention, VOLOKH CONSPIRACY (Jan. 29, 2009, 11:02 AM),
http://www.volokh.com/posts/1233241458.shtml.

If the comment or posting has its own title, include that title in addition to the title of the page to which the comment or posting responds. Separate the two titles with a comma and designate the relationship between the two pages with a phrase such as “comment to”:

Packerland Progressive, How is SEC 115 Constitutional Under INS v. Chadha?, Comment to This Week in Congress, DAILY KOS (Jan. 19, 2009, 9:20 AM), http://www.dailykos.co m/storyonly/2009/1/18/235223/489/683/685802.

Finally, when the web page does not have a clear title, you can use a descriptive title. Descriptive titles should not be italicized:

Archive of Columns by William Saffire, N.Y. TIMES, http://www.nytimes.com/ top/opinion/editorialsandoped/oped/columnists/williamsafire/ (last visited Jan. 17, 2004).

3. Title of the Website (Rule 18.2.2(b)(i))

Following the title of the specific page to which you are citing, you should indicate the title of the main website. This title should be listed in small caps and abbreviated per tables T6, T10, and T13. Capitalize the title of the website as it appears on the site:

Weird and Dumb International Laws, JUSTICEDAILY.COM, http://www.justice/ weird/part2.html (last visited May 21, 2004).


4. Date and Time (Rule 18.2.2(c))

Provide the date as it appears on the internet site, using only dates that refer to the material cited. Put the date after the main page title and any pinpoint citation. Abbreviate the date using Table T12:

Pavement Planning New Album Release, GLIDEMAG. (Nov. 6, 2009), http://www.glidemagazine.com/articles/55317/pavement-planning-new-album- release.html.

For comments, blog postings, or other content that can be easily identified by the time of posting, include a timestamp with the date:

Ashby Jones, Activists, Research Facilities Taking Disclosure Battles to Court, WALL ST. J.: L. BLOG (Feb. 26, 2009, 9:40 AM), http://blogs.wsj.com/law/ 2009/02/26/activists- research-facilities-taking-disclosure-battles-to-the-courts.

If the web page lacks a date for the specific subject matter to which you are citing, indicate the “last modified” or “last updated” date from the website in a parenthetical following the URL.

Dale Fast, History of Biology and Medicine, St. Xavier Univ., http://faculty. sxu.edu/~fa st/general_biology/history.htm (last updated Oct. 31, 2001).

If the web page lacks any date, indicate the last time you visited the website in a parenthetical placed after the URL:

YAHOO!, http://www.yahoo.com (last visited Dec. 15, 2004).

5. The URL (Rule 18.2.2(d))

Always include the URL of the exact web page you visited after either the main website title or the date parenthetical. Generally, include the exact URL that you used to access the website. If there is a shortlink that clearly indicates the source site (like wapo.st or imdb.to) then use the shortlink, but do not use a non-descriptive shortlink such as bit.ly. The Bluebook allows you to cite the root URL (as opposed to the full URL) when:

• The URL is long, unwieldly, or full of nontextual characters; or
• The source can only be obtained by submitting a form or query.

When you do not cite the full URL, include a parenthetical that explains how to navigate to the specific web page to which you are citing:

http://fjsrc.urgan.org/nofram/wqs/q_data_1.html#2001 (follow “2001: AOUSC out” hyperlink; then follow “Offenses: TTSECMO” hyperlink).

Remember that your computer might automatically generate a hyperlink in the document anytime you type an URL. If you notice your computer turning the hyperlink text blue and underlining it, you should remove this formatting, as it does not conform to Bluebook rules.

Archival (Rule 18.2.1(D))

Internet sources can often move from their original URLs or locations on a webpage. In order to preserve the original location and formatting of your sources, The Bluebook encourages archiving internet sources, but only when you have access to a reliable archival tool. Be sure to ask whether your journal, professor, or supervisor requires archival and what the preferred method of archival is for that assignment.

When providing an archived link to internet sources, simply append the archive URL (offset by brackets) to the full citation:

Rocio Gonzalez, Puerto Rico’s Status Debate Continues as Island Marks 61 Years as a Commonwealth, HUFFINGTON POST (July 25, 2013, 9:00 AM), http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/07/25/puerto-rico-status- debate_n_3651755.html [http://perma.cc/C6UP-96HN].

Short Form Citations to Internet Source (Rule 18.9)

For the short form citation to internet sources, simply use the supra form described in Rule 4. You do not need to include the URL in the short-form citation.

1 See Douglas Gantenbein, Mad Cows Come Home, SLATE (Jan. 5, 2004, 12:10 PM), http://slate.msn.com/id/2093396.

2 PFIZER, INC., http://www.pfizer.com (last visited Jan. 17, 2004).

3 Weird and Dumb International Laws, JUSTICEDAILY.COM, http://www.justicedaily.com/weird/part2.html (last visited May 21, 2004).

4 Gantenbein, supra note 1.

When the original full citation does not have an author, cite to the web page title (footnote 5) or website title (footnote 6) in the short form. Maintain the formatting and font from the full citation:

5 Weird and Dumb International Laws, supra note 3.

6 PFIZER, INC., supra note 2.

A. BACKGROUND RULES


A. BACKGROUND RULES

R1 Scope and Format of Standard Legal Documents
The Uniform System of Citation has split into two main branches, with somewhat different citation rules for each. The Indigo Book is a resource for legal citations in standard legal documents.

R1.1	Standard Legal Documents

The Indigo Book states the rules and provides examples for standard legal documents. We define standard legal documents as documents created for practical law-related purposes such as court filings, legal memoranda, legal analysis, and other forms of legal information that require or benefit from a technically precise and commonly understood citation format. The legal citations for standard legal documents using The Indigo Book adhere to a generally consistent national standard.

Many state courts and local legal communities use citation formats that vary from this common standard, more so for state and local citations than for federal citations.
Table T3 provides selective information on state variations. In customizing legal citations for a local audience, consult Table T3 as well as local court rules, customs, and expertise.

R1.2	Academic Legal Documents
Academic legal documents include articles for publication in law reviews, generally authored by law professors and law students enrolled in J.D. programs. The Uniform System of Citation treats law review articles and standard legal documents differently, requiring different fonts and imposing additional footnote rules. Citations in standard legal documents and law review articles provide the same information about legal sources, and a short cross-reference highlighting key font differences is provided in Table T19. A full treatment of formal citation formats for law review articles is outside the scope of The Indigo Book.

R2. Typeface Standards

R2.1 Italicized Components of Legal Citations
In legal citations, italicize the following components, whether placed in footnotes or textual



1

The Indigo Book

sentences:

• Case names—in both full and short citations—and procedural phrases (such as In re
and Ex parte) embedded in the case names
• Book titles
• Article titles
• Certain titles in legislative materials such as committee hearings
• Introductory signals (examples: e.g., see, cf.,and accord)
• Explanatory phrases that introduce subsequent case history (examples: aff’d or cert. denied)
• Cross references, (examples: infra, supra and id.)
• Words and phrases that introduce related authority (e.g., reprinted in and available in)

Example:

The Supreme Court’s practice of allowing modifications after opinions’ initial release has at times extended beyond typographical corrections to substantive changes.
Richard Lazarus, The (Non)Finality of Supreme Court Opinions, 128 Harv. L. Rev. 540, 544 (2014).

R2.2 Additional Italicized Words in Textual Sentences
In the textual sentences of standard legal documents, also italicize the following components and words:

• Publication titles (e.g., The Onion)
• Words that are italicized in the original quotation, with no need to add the parenthetical (emphasis in original); and
• All words that would be italicized in the text (e.g., foreign words that are not commonly used in English language documents).

Example:

As Adam Liptak reported in The New York Times, the Supreme Court sometimes corrects and modifies its opinions after their initial release. Adam Liptak, Final Word on U.S. Law Isn’t: Supreme Court Keeps Editing, N.Y. Times, May 25, 2014, at A1, https://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/25/us/final-word-on-us-law-isnt-supreme-court
-keeps-editing.html.




2

A. BACKGROUND RULES



R3	In-Text Citations

R3.1 Three Options for In-Text Citations
For standard legal documents, in-text citations can be rendered in three ways:

• a complete sentence that supports a claim in the immediately preceding sentence of text;

• a clause within the sentence when the citation relates to a particular part of a sentence, immediately following the claim it supports; or

• embedded within the sentence’s own grammatical flow.

R3.2	Citation Sentences
Citations in standard legal documents often follow complete text sentences.

Examples:

Under the due process requirement, there must be “some definite link, some minimum connection, between a state and the person, property or transaction it seeks to tax.” Miller Bros. Co. v. Maryland, 347 U.S. 340, 344-345 (1954).

Electronic signatures have the same legal effect as signatures signed with pen and ink.



3

The Indigo Book

The Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 7001-7006.

Citations following sentences can be single citations or, when appropriate, several sequential citations separated by a semicolon (known as a “string citation”). These string citations can utilize citation signals consistent with Rule R4 to show the relationship of the citation to the textual sentence.

Example:

Prior to 2018, Supreme Court precedent had required a seller to have a physical presence within a state as a requirement of state taxation. See Quill Corp. v. North Dakota, 504 U.S. 298 (1992); Nat’l Bellas Hess, Inc. v. Dep’t of Rev. of Ill., 386 U.S. 753 (1967).

R3.3 Citation Clauses
Some citations in standard legal documents are placed as citation clauses within sentences. Use citation clauses to cite sources and authorities that relate to only a section of the sentence. A citation clause directly follows the claim it relates to. It may include a signal to indicate the relationship of the cited source to the claim.
Separate citation clauses from the text with commas. Do not add additional capital letters beyond the required capitalization of the sources being cited.
Examples:
Federal law attempts to address online privacy generally, 18 U.S.C. §§ 2510-2523, and children’s privacy specifically, 15 U.S.C. §§ 6501-6505.
Although detailed regulations apply to children’s privacy online, 16 C.F.R. pt. 312, significant gaps remain in both federal and state law.

R3.4	Citations Embedded in Sentences
Citations can be embedded into the grammatical structure of a textual sentence in a variety of ways. Because citations embedded in sentences are read as part of the sentence’s grammatical flow, the rules for abbreviating case names are different and more restrictive than for citation sentences and clauses.





4

A. BACKGROUND RULES

Examples:
Since Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 312 U.S. 359, 366 (1941), the Court has eschewed the idea that a constitutional right could be grounded in “the practical opportunities for tax avoidance.
In Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., the Court first eschewed the idea that a constitutional right could be grounded in “the practical opportunities for tax avoidance.” 312 U.S. 359, 366 (1941),
The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998, 15 U.S.C. §§ 6501-6505 (“COPPA”), was the first federal law specifically protecting children under the age of 13.


INDIGO INKLING
Traditionally, the citations within standard legal documents have been integrated into the main body text. These citations may be placed directly after textual sentences, in citation sentences; as citation clauses within sentences; or textually embedded within sentences. Traditionally, law review articles present their citation support via extensive footnotes in a distinctive format with three different font styles (roman, italics, and Small Caps).
Some courts and lawyers are now producing standard legal documents using footnotes rather than in-text citations. Legal scholar, speaker, and advocate Bryan A. Garner is the best-known proponent of footnotes in standard legal documents, arguing that in-text citations interfere with textual flow and disguise bad writing. Others such as Professor Alexa Chew argue that in-text citations are superior because they integrate source information into the text, a process that can be accomplished with style and grace. The Indigo Book provides citation rules that can be used for either in-text or footnoted citations in standard legal documents.
The original edition of The Indigo Book advised writers to use footnotes only when allowed by a court’s local rules. This remains good advice, although we note that some writers use footnotes when not expressly prohibited by a court’s local rules. Rule R3 has been modified to more fully accommodate the writer’s discretion. As with many discretionary choices, writers should select an approach based on the document’s purpose, audience, and overall context.











5

The Indigo Book

R4 Signals

R4.1	Function of Signals
A signal represents the relationship between the author’s assertion and the source or sources cited following that assertion, a relationship that can run the gamut from supporting it directly to supporting the exact opposite of that assertion. To show this relationship, the signal begins the citation sentence or clause.

R4.2	Categories of Signals There are four basic categories of signals: Category	Signals

Signals for Supporting Authority






Signal for Comparison
Signals for Contradictory Authority

Signals for Background Material

[No signal]

E.g.,

Accord See
See also Cf.
Compare <citation to source(s), separated with “and” if multiple> with
<citation to source(s), separated with “and” if multiple>

Contra But see But cf.
See generally


R4.3	Combinations of Signals
When more than one category of authority is used in the same citation, they should be ordered according to categories of signals. As shown in the table above, the categories follow a logical order: supporting authority is provided before comparative and contradictory authority, and


6

A. BACKGROUND RULES

general background.
In citation sentences, signals in the same category are listed within a single sentence, and each one is marked off by semicolons. Signals in separate categories, however, are listed in separate citation sentences.
Example:

Justice Scalia once noted that “the Constitution sometimes insulates the criminality of a few in order to protect the privacy of us all.” Arizona v. Hicks, 480 U.S. 321, 329 (1987). But see Maryland v. King, 569 U.S. 435, 462-463 (2013) (acknowledging the existence of “programmatic searches of either the public at large or a particular class of regulated but otherwise law-abiding citizens” such as motorist checkpoints).

In citation clauses, all signals (regardless of category) are listed within a single citation clause and separated by semicolons.

Example:

Justice Scalia once noted that “the Constitution sometimes insulates the criminality of a few in order to protect the privacy of us all,” Arizona v. Hicks, 480 U.S. 321, 329 (1987); see also Maryland v. King, 569 U.S. 435, 481 (2013) (Scalia, J., dissenting) (“Solving unsolved crimes is a noble objective, but it occupies a lower place in the American pantheon of noble objectives than the protection of our people from suspicionless law-enforcement searches.”); and later applied that principle to limit police use of thermal imaging technology, see Kyllo v. United States, 389 U.S. 27 (2001); cf. United States v. Jones, 565 U.S. 400 (2012) (invalidating use of a GPS tracking device for long-term surveillance).

R4.4	Authorities Cited Within Each Signal
For the order of authorities cited after (and thus within each signal), order them in a helpful and logical manner, and use a semicolon in between each one.




7

The Indigo Book


858 n. 214 (2019) (quoting Judge Aldisert in Winning on Appeal: Better Briefs and Oral Arguments 57 (2d ed. 2003). On the other hand, after a carefully crafted proposition drawn from several authorities, a string cite may be “the right tool for the job.” Id. at 859.
When a string citation is appropriate, the writer must decide how to order the authorities in the string. In relatively recent years, academic legal documents have followed an elaborate hierarchy, which essentially consists of the following: constitutions before statutes, state statutes in alphabetical order by state, federal cases before state cases, legislative materials before regulatory materials, and all other primary materials, then followed by secondary materials. See The Indigo Book: A Manual of Legal Citation Rule R10 (1st ed. 2016); The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation Rule 1.4 (20th ed. 2015). This hierarchy often does, in fact, provide the most logical order; it seems unwise to cite Wikipedia before the United States Constitution, for example. But this hierarchy may not always fit the situation. The Uniform System of Citation is evolving to encompass more flexibility and discretion in a few pockets here and there, such as the basic principle that authorities cited in a string within a single signal should be placed in a helpful and logical order.


R4.5 Capitalization of Signals
R4.5.1	Signals that start citation sentences

The signal is capitalized at the beginning of a citation sentence.

Example:

Unbelievable as it may be, the Supreme Court has weighed in on the issue of whether a tomato is a fruit or vegetable. See Nix v. Heden, 149 U.S. 304 (1893).

R4.5.2	Signals in citation clauses within textual sentences

The signal is left in lowercase at the beginning of a citation clause.

Example:

Even seemingly trivial issues, see, e.g., Nix v. Heden, 149 U.S. 304 (1893) (addressing the question of whether tomatoes are fruits or vegetables), can sometimes merit input from the Supreme Court.





8

A. BACKGROUND RULES

R4.6	Signals for Supporting Authority
R4.6.1	No signal

A citation does not need an added signal if—

• The source makes the same assertion as the sentence it is supporting.

Example:

To impose the death penalty on an individual who is criminally insane is unconstitutional. Ford v. Wainwright, 477 U.S. 399, 410 (1986).

• The assertion is a direct quotation from the source.

Example:

States are prohibited from “inflicting the penalty of death upon a prisoner who is insane.” Ford v. Wainwright, 477 U.S. 399, 410 (1986).

• The source is referred to in the assertion.

Example:

In cases like Roper, Atkins, and Ford, the Supreme Court has established certain classes of individuals upon which the death penalty may not be imposed. Roper v. Simmons, 543 U.S. 551, 575 (2005); Atkins v. Virginia, 536
U.S. 304, 321 (2002); Ford v. Wainwright, 477 U.S. 399, 410 (1986).

R4.6.2	E.g.,

Use e.g., if the cited source is one of multiple sources to make the same assertion. The citation may include however many sources the author finds to be helpful. Note that the comma in the signal e.g., should not be italicized.

Examples:

In a criminal case, the state bears the burden of proving the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. E.g., State v. Purrier, 336 P.3d 574, 576 (Or. Ct. App. 2014).

Prior to the Supreme Court’s decision in Riley v. California, 573 U.S. 373 (2014), several circuits had generally allowed the police to conduct warrantless searches of cell

9

The Indigo Book

phones of individuals under arrest. E.g., U.S. v. Murphy, 552 F.3d 405, 411 (4th Cir. 2009); U.S. v. Finley, 477 F.3d 250, 260 (5th Cir. 2007).

E.g., may also be used following any other signal, such as See or Contra in which case an italicized comma should separate the two signals.
R4.6.3	Accord

Accord is used when more than one source substantiates a proposition, but the text quotes just one of them. Use accord as the introductory signal for the non-quoted sources. Also, accord may be used as the introductory signal for indicating that the law of one jurisdiction is consistent with the law of another.

Examples:

Colorado law makes it the “duty of every corporation or person who has reasonable grounds to believe that a crime has been committed to report promptly the suspected crime to law enforcement authorities.” Colo. Rev. Stat. § 18-8-115 (2020); accord Lunsford v. W. States Life Ins., 919 P.2d 899, 901 (Colo. App. 1996) (interpreting the reasonable-grounds standard as lower than the probable-cause standard enabling police to make a warrantless arrest).

Under Colorado law, witnesses have a limited duty to report crimes. Colo. Rev. Stat. § 18-8-115 (2020); accord Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 268, § 40 (2020).

R4.6.4	See

See is used when an authority does not directly state but clearly supports the proposition. See is used instead of no signal when an inferential step is required to connect the proposition to the authority cited.

Example:

Citizens have less training than police on detecting crime and no authority to detain other individuals; thus, citizens’ duty to report crime is based on reasonable grounds to believe a crime has been committed, rather than the more exacting probable cause standard. See Lunsford v. W. States Life Ins., 919 P.2d 899, 901 (Colo. App. 1996) (interpreting the reasonable-grounds standard to be less than the probable-cause standard enabling police to make a warrantless arrest).




10

A. BACKGROUND RULES

R4.6.5	See also

See also is used for additional sources that support an assertion. Use see also when authority that states or clearly supports the assertion has already been cited or discussed. The use of a parenthetical is recommended with see also.

Example:

Slayer statutes prevent killers from reaping rewards from committing homicide. Lunsford v. W. States Life Ins., 908 P.2d 79, 83 (Colo. 1995) (en banc); see also Bennett v. Allstate Ins. Co., 722 A.2d 115, 117 (N.J. Super. Ct. App. Div. 1998) (interpreting New Jersey’s slayer statute to mandate that “an intentional killer will not be permitted to benefit, directly or indirectly, from his wrongful act”).

R4.6.6	Cf.

Cf. indicates support by analogy to the assertion. It may also be used where the source is related but requires some interpretive work to connect to the assertion. Cf. may also be used within a string citation to provide another source that is analogous to the previously cited source in that string. Always use a parenthetical with cf. to explain the logical connection required for the argument.

Examples:

Attorneys have an ethical duty of competence, but under Model Rule of Professional Conduct 1.1 comment 3, that duty may be relaxed in emergency situations. Cf. Carter
v. Reese, 2016-Ohio-4559, 70 N.E.3d 478 (holding that Good Samaritan law protects from liability anyone giving medical or nonmedical emergency aid, not only healthcare workers providing medical aid).

Slayer statutes seek to eliminate any financial incentive to commit murder by prohibiting insurance proceeds to the killer. E.g., Unif. Prob. Code § 2-803; cf. N.Y. Exec. Law § 632-a (2020) (seizing profits from publications by certain incarcerated felons).

R4.6.7	See generally

See generally is used for useful background material. It is recommended that you use a parenthetical with see generally in order to explain the authority’s relevance to the proposition.


11

The Indigo Book

Example:

The slayer rule is a product of common law principles prohibiting killers from profiting their crimes. See generally Restatement (Third) of Restitution and Unjust Enrichment § 45(2) (Am. L. Inst. 2011) (“A slayer's acquisition, enlargement, or accelerated possession of an interest in property as a result of the victim's death constitutes unjust enrichment that the slayer will not be allowed to retain.”).

R4.7	Signal for Comparison: Compare … with …
Compare … with … is used when the relationship of multiple authorities will demonstrate or offer support for the proposition. It is highly recommended that each authority in the comparison be explained with a parenthetical in order to make the relationship and argument clear to the reader.
Each portion of the compare … with … signal may contain multiple sources. Separate these sources using commas and italicized and between the penultimate and ultimate citation in the list.

Example:

The 20th Century saw sweeping changes in the definition and scope of the Due Process Clause. Compare Lochner v. New York, 198 U.S. 45 (1905) (showing the Supreme Court’s historical interpretation of the Due Process Clause as solely protecting an individual’s right to contract), with McDonald v. Chicago, 561 U.S. 742 (2010) (incorporating the Second Amendment using the Due Process Clause), BMW of North America, Inc. v. Gore, 517 U.S. 559 (1996) (utilizing the Due Process Clause to reduce punitive damages), and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374 (1994) (limiting the zoning and ordinance powers of local governments under the Due Process Clause).

Insert a comma before with. As with all citation sentences, insert a period to conclude the citation sentence. It is theoretically possible to conclude with a semicolon and continue with more signals and citations in the order listed within this rule, but probably not advisable. See our Indigo Inkling on string citations.

R4.8 Signals for Contradictory Authority
R4.8.1	Contra

Contra is used when a cited authority directly conflicts with the proposition it follows.


12

A. BACKGROUND RULES

Contra is the opposite signal to no signal.

Examples:

The Bluebook efficiently formulates and expresses the rules of legal citation for a variety of audiences. David Ziff, The Worst System of Citation Except for All the Others, 66 J. Legal Educ. 668, 669 (2017) (reviewing The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation (Columbia L. Rev. Ass’n et al. eds., 20th ed. 2015) (“Perhaps The Bluebook survives because it’s not so terrible after all. Perhaps The Bluebook works quite well for the task it was designed to perform.”). Contra Richard A. Posner, The Bluebook Blues, 120 Yale L.J. 950, 951 (2011) (“It is a monstrous growth, remote from the functional need for legal citation forms, that serves obscure needs of the legal culture and its student subculture.”).

The Bluebook is a “monstrous growth, remote from the functional need for legal citation forms.” Richard A. Posner, The Bluebook Blues, 120 Yale L.J. 950, 951 (2011). Contra David Ziff, The Worst System of Citation Except for All the Others, 66 J. Legal Educ. 668, 226 (2017) (reviewing The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation (Columbia L. Rev. Ass’n et al. eds., 20th ed. 2015)) (“Perhaps The Bluebook survives because it’s not so terrible after all. Perhaps The Bluebook works quite well for the task it was designed to perform.”).

R4.8.2	But see

But see is used for authority that, while not directly contradicting the main proposition, nonetheless clearly opposes it. But see is the opposite signal to see.

Example: The Supreme Court noted in Packingham v. North Carolina, 137 S. Ct. 1730 (2017), that the internet functions as a public square. But see Manhattan Cmty. Access Corp. v. Halleck, 13o S. Ct. 1921 (2019) (holding that New York’s public access television channel is not a state actor bound by the First Amendment).

R4.8.3	But cf.

Prepare yourself, and use this one sparingly: But cf. indicates that the cited source supports an assertion that is similar to the opposite of the main assertion. It follows that But cf. is the opposite signal to cf. indicating support by analogy. Always use a parenthetical with but cf. to explain the logical connection required for the argument. This is the weakest signal for contrary authority.



13

The Indigo Book

Example: The bar exam is the only professional-licensure exam that bears so little relationship to the education that precedes it or the professional work that follows it. But cf. Michael Riscica, Why (Smart & Talented) People Fail the Architect Exam, Architizer, https://architizer.com/blog/practice/details/5-reasons-why-smart-and- talented-people-fail-the-architect-exam/ (last visited June 1, 2021) (“There is no correlation between success in architecture school and success with completing the exam. In fact, I truly believe that the creativity that brought you success in architecture school will be your biggest handicap with studying for the [architecture registration exam].”)

R5 Pages, Sections, Paragraphs, and Related Subdivisions

R5.1	Pages
A legal citation usually refers not only to a source in general, but to specific points within that source—whether a page, a footnote on a page, a section or sub-section, or a numbered paragraph. Citations must include specific reference to the point within the source being referred to. For cases, these specific references are known as pincites.
R5.1.1	Single pages

Refer to the source’s page by its number or numbers. Do not use p. or pp. to indicate a page reference. Use “at” if needed for clarity.”

Examples:

The Supreme Court held that a state cannot copyright its official annotated code because “whatever work that judge or legislator produces in the course of his judicial or legislative duties is not copyrightable” Georgia v. Public.Resource.org, Inc., 140 S. Ct. 1498, 1513 (2020).

Elizabeth Porter & Kathryn Watts, Visual Rulemaking, 91 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 1183, 1240 (2016).

Anjali Vats, The Color of Creatorship: Intellectual Property, Race, and the Making of Americans 35 (2020).

George Orwell, 1984, at 12 (1961).






14

A. BACKGROUND RULES

R5.1.2	Spans of pages

Refer to a span of pages with a hyphen (-), an en dash (–), or the word “to” if needed for clarity. Note that an en dash is the proper standard for providing a span of pages in a formal legal publication, but hyphens are commonly used in practice. Drop all digits except the last two, unless needed for clarity.

Examples:

Elizabeth Porter & Kathryn Watts, Visual Rulemaking, 91 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 1183, 1240-41 (2016).

Porter & Watts, supra, at 1240-41.

Selmon v. Hasbro Bradley, Inc., 669 F. Supp. 1267, 1272-73 (S.D.N.Y. 1987).

McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green, 411 U.S. 792, 799-801 (1973).


INDIGO INKLING
Hyphens, en dashes, and em dashes are three separate marks with mostly separate functions in citations and sentences. These marks all comprise short, horizontal lines that—with the help of glasses and/or a magnifying glass—you will see have microscopically varying lengths.
Hyphens (shortest in length) are used for phrasal adjectives (e.g., “laser-sharp focus,” “larger-than-life character,” and compound words (e.g., “daughter-in-law,” “over-the- counter”). Hyphens are also a feature of many statutory citation formats, such as Ala. Code
§ 27-14-24 and O.C.G.A. § 33-24-41. Meticulously preserve hyphens when they are intrinsically part of a citation, such as 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2(a)(1). Hyphens are commonly used for page ranges in standard legal documents.
En dashes (longer than hyphens, shorter than em dashes) can be used for ranges of values (e.g., page ranges) and contrasting or connected pairs of words (e.g., Sarbanes–Oxley Act), especially in academic legal documents.
Em dashes (longest in length) are used for inserting a break in a thought; isolating a concluding phrase; setting on a parenthetical explanation or amplification; and signaling a collection of ideas. Here’s one example: “When her new Volkswagen was finally delivered—nearly three months after it was ordered and following the revelation of VW's




15

The Indigo Book


R5.1.3	Footnotes, figures, historical notes, and tables

Cite a footnote on a page by providing the page, one space, the abbreviation “n.”, and the footnote number. Follow the same format for figures, historical notes, tables, and similar features. Refer to Table T13 for abbreviations such as “fig.” for “figure.” Do not add a space between the abbreviation and the number or letter designating the figure, footnote, historical note, or table.

Examples:

Elizabeth Porter & Kathryn Watts, Visual Rulemaking, 91 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 1183, 1239
n.270 (2016).

Cunningham v. State, 822 S.E.2d 281, 285 n.4 (Ga. 2018) (Hunstein, J.) (“And that’s all she wrote.”).

U.S. v. Rentz, 777 F.3d 1105, 1110 fig. (10th Cir. 2015) (Gorsuch, J.) (diagramming 18
U.S.C. § 924(c)).

R5.2 Sections, Subsections, and Related Subdivisions
R5.2.1	Sections

Cite a section with the section symbol (§) followed by a space and the section number.
Examples:
21 U.S.C. § 343.
21 C.F.R. § 164.150 (2020).
Restatement (Third) of Agency § 2.01 (Am. L. Inst. 2006).




16

A. BACKGROUND RULES


R5.2.2	Subsections

Specifically cite a subsection using the punctuation in the original source, and using the original capitalization style. Do not remove or alter parentheses or hyphens or dashes in the original source’s citation.
Examples:
42 U.S.C. § 2000ff–5(a).
42 U.S.C. § 2000ff–1(b)(2)(A).
42 U.S.C. § 2000ff(2).
Col. Rev. Stat. § 7-74-102(2)(b)(I) (2021). 21 C.F.R. § 133.3 (2021).
R5.2.3	Spans of sections, subsections, and scattered subsections

Use a hyphen, en dash (–), or the word “to” to indicate a span of sections or subsections. In a span or collection of scattered sections, include the last portion of a citation and omit the identical first part, unless repetition of all portions is needed for clarity. Do not use “et seq.” for a span of sources.

Examples:

18 U.S.C. §§ 3681-82.

The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008, 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000ff to 2000ff-11.

O.C.G.A. §§ 51-30-20 to -26 (2021).

Use the source’s formal title for a collected span of sections, such as parts in the Code of Federal Regulations. Table T13 provides the abbreviation for the subdivision “Part.”

Example:

21 C.F.R. pt. 133 (2020).



17

The Indigo Book

Use a comma to indicate scattered sections within a source.

Example:

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 16, §§ 895.1(f), 897.1(b) (2021).

R5.3 Paragraphs
Sources organized into formal paragraphs should be cited with specific reference to the paragraph referred to in the cited proposition. Do not use “at” with ¶ citations.

Examples:

Miller Aff. ¶ 8, Jan. 12, 2015.

In re N.A., 2021-NCCOA-2, ¶ 11.

R6 Full and Short Citations

R6.1	Full Citations
Provide a full citation to a source the first time it is cited. Refer to the rules in The Indigo Book
for examples of each source in full-citation form.

R6.2	Short Citations
Legal citation provides frequent specific citations not just to sources as a whole, but to specific pages within sources. In some standard legal documents, every textual sentence is followed by a citation to a supporting legal source. Short-citation forms allow frequent citation in a less intrusive and repetitive way, since many full citation forms are quite long.
R6.2.1	Short citations derived from the full citation

Short-form citations enable various sources to be used throughout a passage without repeating the entire full citation every time. Short-form citations generally identify the source and pincite, using a form that follows from the full citation form, while not repeating every detail from the full citation.
Every full citation has at least one short form that can be used later in a document after the initial full citation. Refer to the source-specific rules in the Indigo Book for short-citation form examples of each source.


18

A. BACKGROUND RULES

R6.2.2	Use of Id.

Use the short form Id. (capitalized in a citation sentence after a text sentence) or id. (uncapitalized within a sentence as citation clause) to support a statement where it refers to the same exact source cited in the immediately preceding citation. Id. can be used for statutes, regulations, cases, and most other sources.
Id. can be used alone, to indicate the same page of the same source. It can be used with a new pincite to a page, section, or other subdivision, to indicate a different portion of the immediately preceding source. Id. can also refer to a preceding citation that is itself Id. or another short form of a citation. Use “at” to indicate a pincite to a page. Do not use “at” with Id. followed by a section or paragraph pincite.
Id. at 1512.
Id. § 9.
Id. ¶ 12.
In general, do not use id. if it causes confusion or does not save space. For example, id. cannot be used after a string citation, even to refer to the final source listed in that string. Do not use id. to refer to appellate-record citations such as R. at 2. It may be used for sources with longer names in litigation documents, so long as the reference remains clear.
Id. can be used in either in-text citations or footnotes. Id. is typically not used more than four times sequentially in footnotes.
R6.2.3	Use of supra

Supra may be used as part of a short-form citation with secondary sources such as books, periodicals, internet sources. Legislative hearings may be referred to with supra. Do not use supra with primary sources such as cases, statutes, constitutions, and most legislative materials (hearings excepted). Also do not use supra with Restatements, model codes, or regulations.
Apart from its use in selected legal citations, supra may also be used as an internal cross reference.

Examples:

Full citation:

Anjali Vats, The Color of Creatorship: Intellectual Property, Race, and the Making of Americans (2020).


19

The Indigo Book

Short citation in a standard legal document using in-text citations:

Vats, supra, at 100.

Short citation in an academic legal document with footnotes:

Vats, supra note 5, at 100.


R7 Abbreviations

R7.1	Abbreviations Generally
Legal sources are often long and unwieldy. The tables at the back of The Indigo Book provide various resources for finding appropriate and required abbreviations.

• Table T1, Table T2, and Table T3 provide information and abbreviations relevant to federal and state primary-source citations.
• Table T4 provides abbreviation for looseleaf services compiling cases and other legal sources in frequently updated topical collections.
• Table T5 provides legislative abbreviations.
• Tables T6, T7, and T8 provide abbreviations for international, treaty, and arbitration sources.
• Table T9 and Table T10 provide abbreviations for specific types of U.S. courts and the titles of judges and officials.
• Table T11 is of particular interest to many law students and others grappling with cases and periodical citations. It provides common-word abbreviations used in case names and for institutional authors and periodical titles. Table T12 provides geographical


20

A. BACKGROUND RULES

abbreviations.
• Table T13 provides abbreviations for document subdivisions, and Table T14 provides abbreviations for explanatory phrases.
• Table T15 provides abbreviations for specific institutional names in periodical titles, and thus these abbreviations take precedence over any conflicting common-word abbreviations for institutional names from Table T12. For example, the American Bar Association is ABA, not Amer. Bar. Ass’n, when used as an institutional author.
• Table T16 provides abbreviations for publishing terms such as editor and translator. Table T17 provides abbreviations for the months of the year, needed in some periodical citations and in slip-opinion citations and other cases found online rather than in reporters (thus requiring exact dates).
• Table T18 is new to the Second Edition of The Indigo Book and provides abbreviations for litigation documents such as citing an affidavit or petition for certiorari.
• Table T19 is also new and shows selective examples of how the Uniform System of Citation produces citations in standard and academic formats—in other words, a guide to converting the practical citations in The Indigo Book into a citation for an academic legal document (a law review). This Table is certainly not comprehensive but provides a quick view into the font differences within the two branches of the Uniform System of Citation.
• Finally, Table T20 provides selective citations to additional online citation guides.

R7.2 Ordinal Abbreviations in Citations
Ordinal abbreviations are used for the court/year parenthetical in a case citation, the numerical designation of a Congress, a publication’s addition number, and other contexts. See Rule R11 generally and Table T1 for the United States Courts of Appeals (i.e. the various federal circuit courts). In citations and in textual references, ordinal abbreviations do not use superscripts. In citations, abbreviations for “second” and “third” use ordinal style references 2d and 3d, respectively. Extrapolate to larger ordinal numbers ending in second or third, such as “twenty third” becoming “23d” in a citation.

Examples:

1st Dist.

2d Cir.

2d ed.



21

The Indigo Book

3d Dist.

4th Cir.

Incorrect:

2nd, 2nd, 3rd, 3rd 4th Cir.
5th Dist.

Ordinals are also used in federal case citations:
F. Supp. 2d F.3d
F.4th
Do not abbreviate the ordinal in a citation to the Restatement either in textual sentences or citations:
Restatement (Second) of Torts (Am. L. Inst. 1977)

R7.3 Textual References
Citations incorporated into textual sentences—as opposed to citation sentences, clauses, and footnotes—use different abbreviation rules to preserve readability. See Rule R3 (general guidance on citation sentences and textual sentences incorporating citations) and Rule R11.4 (abbreviation rules for case names in textual sentences).
When not providing a precise citation at all, but referring to a court in a textual sentence, spell out the court’s name consistent with common practice. See Rule R27 on capitalizing “Court” in court documents and legal memoranda.)

Example:

The Second Circuit has decided many fair-use cases.

The Florida Supreme Court overruled the Fourth District Court of Appeal’s previous holding on judges’ use of Facebook.



22

A. BACKGROUND RULES

R8 Quotations

R8.1 General Principles for Quotations
R8.1.1	Quotation marks

Quotations of 49 words or less should be designated with double quotation marks that open and close the quotation. Do not use quotation marks around block quotations (see Rule R9 for block quotations.)
Examples:
The Court of Appeals affirmed the dismissal of a consumer-deception claim against a legal publisher: “Under the circumstances, plaintiffs, or any reasonable consumer, could not have been materially misled to believe that defendant guaranteed Part III of the Tanbook was complete and accurate at any given time.”
The court ruled that “a consumer acting reasonably under the circumstances here would not have believed that defendant represented that the section at issue, containing rent control statutes and regulations, was current and accurate for its one-year shelf life.”
R8.1.2	Punctuation with quotations

Punctuation that is part of the quoted text should appear inside the quotation marks. When the quotation is embedded into the sentence using a comma or a period added by the writer at the end of the quotation, that comma or period also appears inside the quotation marks (even though it is not part of the actual quoted text from the source). Punctuation added to a quotation anywhere other than at the end of the quoted material is an alteration that should be indicated with brackets.
Examples:
Legal professionals are “merely a subclass of consumers.”

Given that legal professionals are “merely a subclass of consumers,” New York’s consumer deception law does apply to them.

R8.1.3	Citation placement

Insert a citation sentence for the quoted material after the end of the sentence. Insert the citation as a clause if needed for clarity about which portion of the sentence is attributable to the source. Citations can be full citations or short citations, as appropriate to the surrounding context.



23

The Indigo Book

Examples:

“[A]nnotations published by legislators alongside the statutory text fall within the work legislators perform in their capacity as legislators.” Georgia v.
Public.Resource.org, 140 S. Ct. 1498, 1509 (2020).

The Supreme Court overruled prior precedent about online retailing in light of “the day-to-day functions of marketing and distribution in the modern economy,” Wayfair
v. South Dakota, 138 S. Ct. 2080, 2094 (2018), but has not applied similar reasoning to jettison other precedent.

R8.2 Alterations of Quotations
R8.2.1	Omission of letters

Place an empty bracket at the end of a common root word to indicate the change.

Example:

“The court dismissed the claim[].”

R8.2.2	Mistakes in the original quotation

To acknowledge a significant mistake in the original quotation, keep the problematic word or phrase and follow it with [sic] to indicate this to the reader.

Example:

“The Copyright Office are [sic] a department of the Library of Congress.”

R8.2.3	Substitution of letters or words

Any substitutions into quoted material should be bracketed. This includes words which might add clarity and context, and changes to the capitalization of letters

Example:

“[T]he [Copyright] Office is a department of the Library of Congress.”

R8.2.4	Use of parenthetical clauses to indicate changes to quotation

Use the following phrases attached to a legal citation following a quotation, to indicate changes


24

A. BACKGROUND RULES

made to that quotation:

• (emphasis added)
• (alteration in original)
• (citation omitted)
• (emphasis omitted)
• (internal quotation marks omitted)
• (footnote omitted)

R8.2.5	Parentheticals to indicate quotations within quotations

When using a quotation within a quotation, you can either (1) attribute it to the original source with a parenthetical, or (2) acknowledge it by signaling that its citation has been omitted.
Examples:

Just as the Supreme Court has held that an official statement of the case, syllabus, or headnote prepared by judges “fall within the ‘work they perform in their capacity as judges,’ so too annotations published by legislators alongside the statutory text fall within the work legislators perform in their capacity as legislators.” Georgia v.
Public.Resource.org, 140 S. Ct. 1498, 1509 (2020) (quoting Banks v. Manchester, 128
U.S. 244, 253 (1888)).

“Although the annotations are not enacted into law through bicameralism and presentment, the Commission's preparation of the annotations is under Georgia law an act of ‘legislative authority,’ and the annotations provide commentary and resources that the legislature has deemed relevant to understanding its laws.” Id. (citation omitted).

R8.2.6	Unnecessary parentheticals

The following should not be indicated in a parenthetical:

• (emphasis in original)

• (citation omitted) or (footnote omitted)








25

The Indigo Book


INDIGO INKLING
Dealing with quoted material can be minutely technical, as with parentheticals such as (citation omitted, internal quotation marks removed, and second emphasis omitted). To simplify and streamline citations and replace the granular detail of such parentheticals, attorney Jack Metzler has proposed and promoted a shorter parenthetical to handle such situations: (cleaned up). The parenthetical (cleaned up) after a quotation and citation indicates essentially that the writer has adjusted the citation’s mechanics to the situation and will not list and elaborate on each mechanical modification, but is indicating to the reader that small tweaks have been made for clarity and convenience.
The (cleaned up) parenthetical has not become part of the Uniform System of Citation—yet. It has, however, actually been used in thousands of federal and state judicial opinions. See Jack Metzler, Cleaning Up Citations, 18 J. App. Prac. & Process 142 (2017). The (cleaned up) approach is not without its critics, though, who argue that transparently meticulous care with quotations enhances the writer’s credibility and does not unduly distract readers. Writers will need to make individual decisions whether to consider (cleaned up), depending on their role and their audience. Apart from these individual decisions, the (cleaned up) parenthetical provides yet more evidence that legal citation can and does evolve not just through the periodic publication of citation rules but through practice and dialogue within the legal community.


R8.3 Omissions in Quotations
R8.3.1	Ellipses generally

An omission is indicated by an ellipsis where the words are omitted: . . . The ellipsis in legal writing is represented by three periods and four spaces.
Insert a space after the last letter of the preceding phrase, a space between each period, and a space before the first letter of the following phrase. Rules R8.3.2-R8.3.7 contain rules and examples for incorporating ellipses in various situations.
R8.3.2	Omission from the beginning of a quoted sentence

When omitting the beginning of a quoted sentence, do not use an ellipsis. Instead, capitalize the first letter and place it in brackets. If the first letter of the quoted material is already capitalized, no change is needed, but—as with all quotes—ensure that the quotation is accurate in context.



26

A. BACKGROUND RULES

Example:

“[T]he actual knowledge provision turns on whether the provider actually or subjectively knew of specific infringement, while the red flag provision turns on whether the provider was subjectively aware of facts that would have made the specific infringement objectively obvious to a reasonable person.”

R8.3.3	Omission in the middle of a sentence

When omitting the middle of a quoted sentence, insert an ellipsis to indicate the omission.

Example:

“The difference between actual and red flag knowledge is . . . between a subjective and an objective standard.”

R8.3.4	Omission Within a quotation as a phrase or clause

If there is an omission within the quotation, mark the omission with an ellipsis.

Example:

Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Allapattah Servs., Inc., 545 U.S. 546, 571 (2005) (noting that “[t]he distinguished jurists who drafted the Subcommittee Working Paper . . . agree that this provision, on its face, overrules Zahn.”).

R8.3.5	Omission at the end of a sentence

When omitting the end of a quoted sentence, insert an ellipsis between the last letter quoted and the punctuation mark of the original quote.

Example:

“The difference between actual and red flag knowledge is thus not between specific and generalized knowledge  ”

When omitting material at the end of one sentence and the beginning of the next sentence, use one ellipsis to mark the omission but include the final punctuation mark of the first sentence as well as bracket and capitalize the first letter of the following sentence.

Example:


27

The Indigo Book

“The difference between actual and red flag knowledge is thus not between specific and generalized knowledge	[T]he red flag provision turns on whether the provider
was subjectively aware of facts that would have made the specific infringement objectively obvious to a reasonable person.”

R8.3.6	Omission of a footnote or citation

When omitting a footnote or citation from quoted material, do not insert an ellipsis. Do insert a parenthetical indicating the omission immediately after the citation to the quoted source. See Rule R8.2.6.
R8.3.7	Omission of full sentences following the quoted material

When omitting material following a final punctuation mark, do not use an ellipsis.

Example:

“The difference between actual and red flag knowledge is thus not between specific and generalized knowledge, but instead between a subjective and an objective standard.”











28

A. BACKGROUND RULES

R9	Block Quotations

R9.1 Basic Form of a Block Quotation

Set off quotations consisting of 50+ words into a block quotation, followed by the citation if not apparent from the introduction to the block quotation:

Example:

Georgia minimizes the OCGA annotations as non-binding and non-authoritative, but that description undersells their practical significance. Imagine a Georgia citizen interested in learning his legal rights and duties. If he reads the economy-class version of the Georgia Code available online, he will see laws requiring political candidates to pay hefty qualification fees (with no indigency exception), criminalizing broad categories of consensual sexual conduct, and exempting certain key evidence in criminal trials from standard evidentiary limitations—with no hint that important aspects of those laws have been held unconstitutional by the Georgia Supreme Court. See OCGA §§ 21-2-131, 16-6-2, 16-6-18, 16-15-9 (available at www.legis.ga.gov).
Meanwhile, first-class readers with access to the annotations will be assured that these laws are, in crucial respects, unenforceable relics that the legislature has not bothered to narrow or repeal. See §§ 21-2-131, 16-6-2, 16-6-18, 16-15-9 (available at https://store.lexisnexis.com/products/official-code-of-georgia-annotated- skuSKU6647 for $412.00).

Georgia v. Public.Resource.org, 140 S. Ct. 1498, 1512 (2020).

R9.2 Formatting of Block Quotations

• Block quotations are single spaced.
• Include a single line space after the block quotation, and resume the spacing convention in the surrounding document text.
• Indent both left and right.
• Block quotations should be formatted with “full justification.” The right and left margins of the block quotation are fully justified, meaning aligned on the left margin and on the right margin. The aligned left and right margins give the block quotation its appearance as a rectangular “block” of text on the page.
• Do not use quotation marks surrounding the block quotation. The block format itself indicates that the material is a quotation, and quotation marks around a block would be


29

The Indigo Book

redundant. (Exception: Use quotation marks if the entire block quotation is itself a quotation within the source being quoted, and indicate the internal quotation and source parenthetically after the block.)
• In general, internal quotation marks should appear as in the original.
• The citation following a block quotation should start at the line’s left margin, without any indentation. This citation can be a full citation or a short citation, as the circumstances dictate. It should include a pincite to the page or pages where the quoted material is found.

R10	Explanatory Parentheticals
Sometimes, it is helpful to include extra information to explain the relevance of certain citations. Explanatory parentheticals may consist of phrases typically started with a present participle such as (holding . . . ), direct quotations from the source, or short statements.
Parentheticals also provide information about the weight of the authority cited, particularly with cases.

R10.1 Capitalization in Parentheticals
R10.1.1	Paraphrases and other original parentheticals

If not quoting the authority, do not begin an explanatory parenthetical with capital letter.

Example:

Dr. Seuss Enters., L.P. v. Penguin Books USA, Inc., 109 F.3d 1394 (9th Cir. 1997) (holding that publisher’s asserted parody of O.J. Simpson murder trial was substantially similar to copyrighted work).

R10.1.2	Quotations in parentheticals

If quoting the authority, only begin parenthetical with capital letter and end with a period when the parenthetical quoted is or reads as a complete sentence.

Example:

See Ty, Inc. v. Publ’ns Int’l Ltd., 292 F.3d 512, 520 (7th Cir. 2002) (“[T]he shortage that creates the secondary market stampedes children into nagging their parents to buy them the latest Beanie Babies, lest they be humiliated by not possessing the Beanie Babies that their peers possess.”).



30

A. BACKGROUND RULES

R10.2 Format and Order of Parentheticals Showing the Weight of Authority
Some citations need to provide other types of parentheticals about the source itself, and these source-related parentheticals are given before explanatory parentheticals.
Examples of source-related parentheticals include information about a judicial opinion’s weight of authority as (per curiam) or (en banc), information about the source as a quote such as information being omitted or emphasis added, information about a source being quoted within the source, and bracketed definitions of the source as a short-form citation, such as [hereinafter “Color of Creatorship”].
The source-related parentheticals are followed by the explanatory parenthetical, if any; and last, the prior or subsequent history (see Rule R14) as shown in this order of parenthetical types:

(date) [hereinafter <short name>] (en banc) (<Lastname, J.>, concurring) (plurality opinion) (per curiam) (alteration in original) (emphasis added) (footnote omitted) (citations omitted) (quoting <another source>) (internal quotation marks omitted) (citing <another source>), http://www.domainname.com (explanatory parenthetical), prior or subsequent history.































31

The Indigo Book


B. CASES

INDIGO INKLING
The format of traditional case citations derives from the historical print publication of bound reporters, such as West’s National Reporter System. The citation elements are based on the reporter’s volume number, title of the reporter including series number, and first page of the cited case. In June 2021, the famous reporter of federal appellate cases, the Federal Reporter, 3d published its last volume, turning over to the first volume of a new series, the Federal Reporter, 4th. Citations for federal appellate cases decided in the latter half of 2021 and beyond will be assigned citations along the lines of 123 F.4th 456. The Federal Reporter, 3d is a set of books for sale by West Publishing, and Federal Reporter, 4th no doubt will be as well. Most researchers do not lay their hands on these books, much less purchase them; still, the elements of traditional case citation derive directly from the West publication system.
Starting in the early 1990s, some states began adopting public-domain citations, also known as neutral citations, vendor-neutral citations, medium-neutral citations, and universal citations, because they do not rely on specific proprietary bound publications. A medium-neutral citation looks something like this: These states are shown in Table T3. The Indigo Book encourages the use of public domain citations. When giving a public domain citation, also include a parallel citation to the appropriate print reporter if possible. For example: Curlee by and through Becerra v. Johnson, 2021-NCSC-32, 856 S.E.2d 478.


R11 Full citation

R11.1 Elements of a Full Citation
When providing a full citation to a case, you should generally include the following, with the court and year enclosed within a single set of parentheses:

• Italicized case name followed by an unitalicized comma
• volume number, reporter, first page of the case in the reporter
• comma, space, and pincite to an exact page
• abbreviated court name (if not precisely apparent from the name of the reporter)
• year




32

B. CASES

Case citations may also include the additional components such as a signal, subsequent history, parallel citations, and explanatory parentheticals. These additional components are sometimes required and sometimes discretionary, as determined by the case’s characteristics, the way the citation supports the text, applicable court rules, or other audience expectations.

Examples (federal):

Manhattan Cmty. Access Corp. v. Halleck, 139 S. Ct. 1921 (2019).

Seltzer v. Green Day, 725 F.3d 1170 (9th Cir. 2013).

Leonard v. Pepsico, Inc., 88 F. Supp. 2d 116, 127 (S.D.N.Y. 1999).

Examples (state):

SciGrip, Inc. v. Osae, 838 S.E.2d 334 (N.C. 2020).

People v. Lucero, 747 P.2d 660 (Colo. 1987).

Mercer Univ. v. Stofer, 841 S.E.2d 224 (Ga. Ct. App. 2020).


R11.1.1	Parallel citation

A case citation may also include parallel citation to another print reporter or online location for the case, such as a medium-neutral citation. When the print reporter unambiguously indicates the identity of the court, omit the court from duplication at the end of the citation. When the medium-neutral citation unambiguously indicates the court and year, either or both elements may be omitted from further duplication at the end of the citation.
Examples:
Mercer Univ. v. Stofer, 306 Ga. 191, 830 S.E.2d 169 (2019).
State ex rel. Pilarczyk v. Geauga Cty., 2019-Ohio-2880, 157 Ohio St. 3d 191, 134 N.E.3d 142.
USA Power LLC v. PacifiCorp, 2016 UT 20, 372 P.3d 629.
R11.1.2	Parentheticals

A case citation may also include one or more parentheticals after the main citation elements. Parentheticals, if any, ordered according to the following functions: (indicating the weight of authority such as en banc) (indicating the source of a quotation or cited assertion in the main



33

The Indigo Book

assertion being supported) (indicating explanatory information), if required or permitted as shown in Rule R10.
Examples:
Barking Hound Village, LLC v. Monyak, 787 S.E.2d 191, 198 (Ga. 2016) (“the unique human- animal bond, while cherished, is beyond legal measure”).
Toolson v. N.Y. Yankees, Inc., 346 U.S. 356 (1953) (per curiam) (affirming baseball’s exemption from the scope of federal antitrust laws).
R11.1.3	Prior or subsequent history of the case

A case citation may also include prior or subsequent history, if required by Rule R14.
Example:
Leonard v. Pepsico, Inc., 88 F. Supp. 2d 116, 127 (S.D.N.Y. 1999), aff’d, 210 F.3d 88 (2d Cir.
2000) (per curiam).

R11.2	Case Names Italicized
In formatting a case citation, italicize everything in the case name, but don’t italicize the comma at the end of the case name.

R11.3	Comprehensive Case-Name Abbreviations in Citation Sentences and Clauses
Citation sentences and clauses stand apart from the traditional prose text, as shown in Rule R3. In citation sentences and clauses, use extensive word and geographical abbreviations as indicated in Table T11 and Table T12. These abbreviations must be followed in addition to the general rules for truncating case names in all contexts in Rule R11.5.
R11.3.1	Common word abbreviations

Abbreviate common words in case names according to Table T11.

Correct (in a citation sentence):

Cont’l Paper Bag Co. v. E. Paper Bag Co.

Incorrect (in a citation sentence):

Continental Paper Bag Company v. Eastern Paper Bag Company


34

B. CASES

R11.3.2	Geographical abbreviations (citation sentences and clauses)

Abbreviate geographical locations according to Table T12. Do not abbreviate a geographical place if it is one of the parties in the case.

Correct (in a citation sentence):

Church of Scientology of Cal. v. Blackman

Incorrect (in a citation sentence):

Church of Scientology of California v. Blackman

Correct (in a citation sentence):

South Dakota v. Fifteen Impounded Cats

Incorrect (in a citation sentence):

S.D. v. Fifteen Impounded Cats

R11.3.3	Discretionary abbreviations

If the resulting abbreviation is not ambiguous, words of eight or more letters may be abbreviated to save substantial space in citation sentences and clauses. As a guide, remember that citation sentences and clauses stand apart from the prose text they support, and thus can prioritize efficiency over readability; but clarity and preciseness are still important factors.

R11.4 Limited Case-Name Abbreviations in Textual Sentences
Textual sentences—i.e. grammatical prose for the reader, as opposed to citation “sentences” and clauses interspersed between textual sentences—may include case names and full or short case citations. When including a case name within a textual sentence, case-name abbreviations are sharply limited. The purpose is to prioritize sentence readability over citation efficiency.
Case names within textual sentences should abbreviate well-known acronyms and the eight words listed in the table below. While abbreviations are limited, note that the general rules for truncating case names in R11.5 still apply. Thus, many words are omitted following R11.5, but the words that are included are not abbreviated unless allowed by this rule. The guiding principles are shortening long case names while preserving readability in textual sentences.



35

The Indigo Book



Example:

In McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green, the Supreme Court held that in a disparate treatment case, the plaintiff bears the initial burden of establishing a prima facie case of employment discrimination. 411 U.S. 792 (1973).

Example:

According to Texas Department of Community Affairs v. Burdine, once the plaintiff has established a prima facie case, there is a rebuttable presumption of unlawful discrimination. 450 U.S. 248, 254 (1981).

R11.5 General Case Name Truncation for All Contexts
Many case-name truncations are used in all contexts, including citation sentences and clauses as well as in textual sentences incorporating case names. In citation sentences and clauses, the examples below would incorporate extensive word and geographical abbreviations following Rule R11.3 and Tables T11 and T12.
R11.5.1	Surname

When referring to a case with an individual’s name in the case name, use the person’s full family name (i.e., their surname). Delete first name and initials, except when the full name of the person is in a language that lists the surname first, or when referring to the name of a business or where the court has abbreviated the party’s surname (as is common in cases involving minor children as parties).



36

B. CASES

Examples:

Van Leeuwen v. Souto de Moura James T. Kirk & Assocs. v. Luke S. Smith v. Jones
Xu Lanting v. Wong

James T. Kirk & Assocs. v. Klingon Corp. Luke S. v. Leia S.

R11.5.2	First-named party on each side of the “v.”

Only include the surname of the first-listed party of the plaintiffs and the surname of the first- listed party of the defendants. Do not use “et al.” to indicate omitted additional parties.
R11.5.3	Commonly recognized abbreviations

Abbreviate commonly recognized agencies and organizations by their initials, such as the SEC and the ACLU.

Examples:

Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 395 U.S. 367 (1969).

FBI v. Abramson, 456 U.S. 615 (1982).





37

The Indigo Book


R11.5.4	Nicknames

Delete nicknames and aliases listed after a party name.

Correct: Jackson v. Leviston
Incorrect: Curtis James Jackson III, p/k/a 50 Cent v. Lastonia Leviston

R11.5.5	Et al.

Do not add “et al.” to indicate the omission of other parties not listed. Delete “et al.” even if used in a case caption indicating multiple parties.

Correct: Zurich American Insurance Co. v. Nokia, Inc.

Incorrect:  Zurich American Insurance Co. et al. v. Nokia, Inc.

R11.5.6	Multiple business designations

Omit terms such as “L.L.C.” and “Inc.” that indicate the party is a business when that fact is made clear because the party name includes a word such as “Co.” or “Inc.”

Correct:  A.H. Robins Co. v. Piccinin

Incorrect:  A.H. Robins Co., Inc. v. Piccinin

When you see “on the relation of,” “on behalf of,” and similar expressions, replace with “ex rel.”


38

B. CASES

Correct: State ex rel. Plain Dealer v. Ohio Department of Insurance

Incorrect: State on behalf of Plain Dealer v. Ohio Department of Insurance

When you see “in the matter of,” “petition of,” and similar expressions, replace with “In re.”

Correct: In re National Football League Players’ Concussion Injury Litigation Incorrect: In the Matter of National Football League Players’ Concussion Injury Litigation.

Bankruptcy cases sometimes contain multiple case names including both a procedurally based name with “In re” and an adversary case name. In such cases, use the adversary case name followed parenthetically in the case name with the procedurally based name:
Example: Farmers Cooperative Co. v. Ernst & Young, Inc. (In re Big Sky Farms Inc.)
In non-bankruptcy cases, do not use “In re” when the case name also contains the name of an adversary; use the adversary name.
R11.5.8	United States as a party

Spell out “United States” when it is a named party. Omit “of America.”

Correct: United States v. Ninety Five Barrels, More or Less
Incorrect: U.S. v. Ninety Five Barrels, More or Less

Note that “United States” may be abbreviated as “U.S.” when used as an adjective for an agency, in citation sentences and clauses.
R11.5.9	State or commonwealth as a party

Omit “People of,” “State of,” and “Commonwealth of,” unless citing a court located in that state, in which case retain only “People,” “State,” or “Commonwealth.”

Correct: International Shoe v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310 (1945).

Incorrect: International Shoe v. State, 326 U.S. 310 (1945).

Incorrect: International Shoe v. State of Washington 326 U.S. 310 (1945).

Correct: Commonwealth v. Miller, 987 A.2d 638 (Pa. 2009).

Incorrect:  Commonwealth of Pa. v. Miller, 987 A.2d 638 (Pa. 2009).


39

The Indigo Book

R11.5.10	Municipalities

Include phrases such as “Town of” and “City of” when such phrases are the first part of the name of a party. Omit phrases such as “Town of” and “City of” if the phrase appears in the middle or end of the name of a party.

Correct: C & A Carbone v. Town of Clarkston
Incorrect: C & A Carbone v. Clarkston

Correct: Matter of Chestnut Ridge v. Town of Ramapo
Incorrect: Matter of Village of Chestnut Ridge v. Town of Ramapo

R11.5.11	Prepositional phrases with locations

Include prepositional phrases designating national or larger geographical areas.

Correct: Republic of Korea v. Ahn Incorrect: Republic v. Anh Incorrect: Korea v. Ahn
Include prepositional phrases indicating location after a municipal category such as “City of” or “Town of.”
Correct: Florida Beach Advertising, LLC v. City of Treasure Island
Incorrect: Florida Beach Advertising, LLC v. City
Include prepositional phrases indicating location when the phrase is part of a business or organizational name.
Correct: Chattanooga Restaurant Partnership, Inc. v. City of Chattanooga Beer Bd.
Incorrect: Chattanooga Restaurant Partnership Inc. v. City

Correct: Kolibash v. Committee on Legal Ethics of the W.Va. Bar

Incorrect: Kolibash v. Committee on Legal Ethics

Correct: Dam Things from Denmark v. Russ Berrie & Co.
Incorrect: Dam Things v. Russ Berrie & Co.




40

B. CASES

Include prepositional phrases indicating location to avoid a party name with only one word.

Correct: ACLU of N.D. v. Jones
Incorrect: ACLU v. Jones

Omit other prepositional phrases indicating location. Omit geographical information after a comma in a case name.

Correct: Stevenson v. Board of Trade
Incorrect: Stevenson v. Board of Trade of Colorado

Correct: California Board of Commerce v. City of Sacramento
Incorrect: California Board of Commerce v. City of Sacramento, California

R11.5.12	“The”

Delete “the” as the first word of a party’s name. Make an exception if the party is “The Queen” or the “The King,” or when referring to the established popular name in a citation or citation clause. Also retain “the” if it is part of the name of the object of an in rem action.

Correct: International Society for Krishna Consciousness of California, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles
Incorrect: International Society for Krishna Consciousness of California, Inc. v. The City of Los Angeles

Correct: In re the Snug Harbor
Incorrect: In re Snug Harbor

Correct: The Railroad Commission Cases

Incorrect: Railroad Commission Cases

R11.5.13	Commissioner of Internal Revenue

The Commissioner of Internal Revenue should be cited as “Commissioner” (abbreviated as “Comm’r” in citation sentences and clauses).

Correct: Plainfield-Union Water Co. v. Commissioner
Incorrect: Plainfield-Union Water Co. v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue




41

The Indigo Book

Incorrect: Plainfield-Union Water Co. v. CIR

Incorrect: Plainfield-Union Water Co. v. IRS

R11.5.14	Unions

Generally, follow the case name as reported. Widely known acronyms are allowed. But generally, omit additional information after the first full union designation.

Correct: Union Pacific Railroad Co. v. Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers

Incorrect: Union Pacific Railroad Co. v. Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen, General Committee of Adjustment, Central Region

R11.5.15	Multiple dispositions

For cases with multiple dispositions, include an italicized identifier if useful. In subsequent references to or citations of that case, the identifier can replace the full case name.

Examples:

Liriano v. Hobart Corp. (Liriano II), 92 N.Y.2d 232 (1998).

Liriano v. Hobart Corp. (Liriano III), 170 F.3d 264, 266 (2d Cir. 1999) (citing Liriano II, 92 N.Y.2d at 236–37).

R11.5.16	Mandamus

If a mandamus action is known by the name of the judge against whom the writ is sought, that name can be indicated in an italicized parenthetical.

Example:

Jones v. U.S. District Court (Smith), 89 U.S. 233 (2011).

R11.5.17	Cases known by a distinct name

If a case is known both by the reported name and a distinct short form name, always include the reported name in a full citation. The short name may be included in italics in a parenthetical.

Example:


42

B. CASES

Industrial Union Department, AFL-CIO v. American Petroleum Institute (The Benzene Case)


R11.6 Volume Number, Reporter, First Page
The citation should include the volume number of the reporter, the abbreviated name of the reporter, and the first page of the case in that reporter.

Example:

Terrible v. Terrible, 534 P.2d 919 (Nev. 1975).

R11.6.1	Overview of volumes, reporters, and pages

This table provides an overview of federal and state citations, with the citation given at left and the full corresponding volume, reporter, and page number at right. Imagine books on the shelf with the name of the reporter and volume number shown on the book’s spine. Open that volume to the page given, to find the beginning of the case.




43

The Indigo Book


R11.6.2	Reporter and series

Federal and state jurisdictions are listed in Table T1 (federal cases) and Table T3 (state cases), including the reporters where their cases are published. Here is a key overview of the reporters containing federal and state cases.
United States Supreme Court cases are printed in the official United States Reports, cited as
<vol.> U.S. <page>. The publication of the United States Reports is significantly delayed from opinions’ decision date. When there is no U.S. citation available, use the Supreme Court Reports (abbreviated S. Ct.).
Cases decided by the United States Circuit Courts are printed in the Federal Reporter, Fourth Series (F.4th) starting with cases in July 2021, then F.3d, F.2d, and F. for older cases.
Federal district court cases are printed in the Federal Supplement, Second Series (F. Supp. 2d), and F. Supp. for older cases.
Federal cases not selected for publication may be available in the Federal Appendix or other unofficial reporters.
For state cases, choose the reporter listed in Table T3 for state cases whenever available. The standard national citation practice is to cite to the West National Reporter System although many states have a state-specific official reporter or official public-domain citation system (not reliant on a private publisher’s system). Local customs and court rules vary from the standard national citation practice, as represented in Table T3.




44

B. CASES


R11.6.3	Parallel citation in state court documents

When submitting documents to state courts, follow the local rules for citations, selectively indicated in Table T3. State courts’ local rules often require a parallel citation: i.e., a citation to both the official state reporter, followed by the unofficial regional and/or state-specific reporter. Each reporter will have different page numbers, so provide a pincite for each. Also, when the official reporter title makes the state or court name apparent, don’t include it again in parentheses.

Example (without pincites):

Harden v. Playboy Enterprises, Inc., 261 Ill. App. 3d 443, 633 N.E.2d 764 (1993).

Example (with pincites):

Harden v. Playboy Enterprises, Inc., 261 Ill. App. 3d 443, 444, 633 N.E.2d 764, 765 (1993).

R11.7 Pincites
Each case citation, whether full or short, should include a pincite to direct the reader to the specific page being cited.
In a full citation to a case, include a pincite after the first page where the case is found in the reporter. If the pincite is the first page of the opinion, be sure to still include it by just repeating the number. Pincites are required in both full and short citations when those citations support a reference to a specific page of the case. See Rule R15 on short citations for cases and Rule R6 on full and short citations generally.
Pincites can be used to identify the page source for content of an explanatory parenthetical. Pincites can also be used to identify the page source for content in the textual sentence supported by the citations sentence or clause that follows.



45

The Indigo Book

Examples:

Mattel, Inc. v. MCA Records, Inc., 296 F.3d 894, 908 (9th Cir. 2002) (“The parties are advised to chill.”).

Judicial attempts at humor are not new. As the Georgia Court of Appeals quipped in the mid-1970s, “The D.A. was ready. His case was red-hot. Defendant was present, His witness was not.” Brown v. State, 216 S.E.2d 356, 356 (Ga. Ct. App. 1975) (reversing conviction).

Judicial humor is not new, e.g., Brown v. State, 216 S.E.2d 356, 356 (Ga. Ct. App. 1975); and neither is academic critique of it as generally “a dreadful thing,” William Prosser, The Judicial Humorist vii (1952).

R11.7.1	Multiple pages

Use a comma or commas to indicate a pincite to multiple non-sequential pages.

Example:

Gordon v. Secretary of State of New Jersey, 460 F. Supp. 1026, 1026, 1028 (D.N.J. 1978) (dismissing a complaint charging that plaintiff, by reason of his illegal incarceration in jail, had been deprived of the office of the President of the United States).

R11.7.2	Span of pages

Use a hyphen or en dash to indicate a pincite to a span of pages.

Example:

Helton v. State, 311 So. 2d 381, 382-84 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1975) (reciting the prosecutor’s closing arguments in a parody of “’Twas the Night Before Christmas”).

R11.7.3	Paragraph numbers in medium-neutral cases

Use a paragraph symbol and the paragraph number to pincite to a case published in medium- neutral format. To refer to a span of paragraphs in the case, use two paragraphs symbols and numbers indicating the cited span, separated by a hyphen or en dash.

Examples:


46

B. CASES

Couch v. Durrani, 2021-Ohio-726, ¶ 9 (Ct. App. 2021). Couch v. Durrani, 2021-Ohio-726, ¶ ¶ 9-15 (Ct. App. 2021). Couch, 2021-Ohio-726, ¶ 15.
Id. ¶ 18.

R11.7.4	Citing a footnote

To cite a footnote, provide a page number followed immediately with a footnote number, using “n.” to show footnote number. There is no space between “n.” and the footnote number.

Example:

Cunningham v. State, 822 S.E.2d 281, 285 n.4 (Ga. 2018) (Hunstein, J.) (“And that’s all she wrote.”)

R12 Court and Year

R12.1 Overview of Court and Year
Citations should include both the deciding court and the year of decision in parentheses. Use Table T1 for federal cases and Table T3 for state cases. If these tables do not provide the needed abbreviation information, construct an abbreviation using Table T9 and Table T12 for court and geographical abbreviations.
Examples:
Learning Curve Toys, Inc. v. PlayWood Toys, Inc., 342 F.3d 714 (7th Cir. 2003).
Mattel, Inc. v. MGA Ent. Inc., 782 F. Supp. 2d 911 (C.D. Cal. 2011).
Barking Hound Village, LLC v. Monyak, 787 S.E.2d 191 (Ga. 2016).
Alexander v. Gen. Acc. Fire & Life Assurance Corp., 98 So. 2d 730 (La. Ct. App. 1957).

R12.2	Court Abbreviations
See Table T1 for how to abbreviate the names of all U.S. federal courts. See Table T3 for how to abbreviate the names of U.S. state courts. The chart here shows common examples.





47

The Indigo Book



Court	Guidance on Reporter Selection and Court Abbreviation


Example

United States

Use U.S. if the opinion is published in the United States Reports.

Two Pesos, Inc. v. Taco Cabana, Inc., 505 U.S.

SupremeIf not, use S. Ct. Court
Refer to Table T1 for additional options if U.S. and S. Ct. do not apply.

763 (1992).
Google LLC v. Oracle Am., Inc., 141 S. Ct. 1183
(2021).



United States Courts of Appeals






United States District Courts




State

Either F., F.2d, F.3d, or F.4th depending on the decision.	Batman v.
Commissioner, 189 F.2d
107 (5th Cir. 1951).
Nance v. United States, 299 F.2d 122, 124 (D.C.
Cir. 1962) (“How do you know it was me, when I had a handkerchief over my face?”).
Either F. Supp. or F. Supp. 2d depending on the decision.	Frigaliment Importing
Co. v. B.N.S. Int’l Sales Corp., 190 F. Supp. 116,
117 (S.D.N.Y. 1960).
Cartier v. Aaron Faber Inc., 512 F. Supp. 2d 165
(S.D.N.Y. 2007).

Cite to the regional reporter for the region in which the court Terrible v. Terrible, 534

High Courts

sits, if the opinion appears there. If not, cite to the state’s official reporter, as listed in Table T3. The state’s preferred official reporter may be a public domain (i.e., medium neutral) citation.
See Table T3.

P.2d 919 (Nev. 1975).
State v. One 1970
2-Door Sedan Rambler, 136 N.W. 59 (Neb.
1974).


Other	Cite to the regional reporter for the region in which the court Brown v. Swindell, 198

State Courts

sits, if the opinion appears there. If not, cite to the state’s official reporter in Table T3. The state’s preferred official

So. 2d 432, 434 (La. Ct.
App. 1967).




48

B. CASES



Court Guidance on Reporter Selection and Court Abbreviation
reporter may be a medium-neutral citation. See Table T3. Use Tables T9 and T12 to construct an abbreviation if not contained in Tables T1 and T3.



R12.3	Intermediate appellate departments or divisions R12.3.1		General rule of omission


Example


State v. Stroud, 30 Wash. App. 392 (1981).
State v. Russell,
2020-Ohio-5108 (Ohio Ct. App. 2020).

In general, do not indicate the departments or divisions of intermediate appellate courts.
Correct Example:
Hamel v. Emp. Sec. Dep't, 966 P.2d 1282 (Wash. Ct. App. 1998).
Incorrect Example:
Hamel v. Emp. Sec. Dep't, 966 P.2d 1282 (Wash. Ct. App., Div. 2 1998).
R12.3.2	Exceptions for including intermediate appellate department or division


Where intermediate appellate departments or divisions are relevant to the point being made in the text, or where local the court rules require citations to include this information. See Table T3 for more information on state jurisdictions such as Florida and Texas where this information is required and where the format for such citations varies in local practice. For standard legal documents seeking a uniform national approach, add the department or division information to be clear and, if possible, consistent with the general uniform standard for citations to intermediate appellate courts.
Correct Example:
Before the Florida Supreme Court addressed the question in 2018, Florida District Courts of Appeals were split on whether judges must disqualify themselves from deciding a case when they are social-media connections with one or more attorneys in that case. Compare L. Offs. of Herssein & Herssein, P.A. v. USAA, 229 So. 3d 408 (Fla. 3d Dist. Ct. App. 2017), approved by 271 So. 3d 889 (Fla. 2018), with Domville v. State, 103 So. 3d 184 (Fla. 4th Dist. Ct. App.
2012), disapproved by L. Offs. of Herssein & Herssein, P.A. v. USAA, 271 So. 3d 889 (Fla. 2018).




49

The Indigo Book



R12.3	Duplicative Court and Year Information
R12.3.1	Court indicated by reporter

If the identity of the court is clearly and unambiguously indicated by the reporter’s name, do not include the court in the parenthetical information with the year. When writing to a court and governed by local rules requiring parallel citations, the court’s identity may be indicated by required parallel citation information.
Examples:
Kewanee Oil Corp. v. Bicron Co., 416 U.S. 470 (1974). Wexler v. Greenberg, 399 Pa. 569, 160 A.2d 430 (1960). R12.3.2	Year indicated in medium-neutral citation
When using a medium-neutral citation format (alone or in a parallel citation), if the year of the decision is clearly and unambiguously indicated by the citation format, do not duplicate the year in the parenthetical information.
Examples:
Water & Energy Sys. Tech., Inc. v. Keil,1999 UT 16, 979 P.2d 829.
Failor v. Megadyne Med. Prods., Inc., 2009 UT App. 179, 213 P.3d 899.

R12.4	Special Note on Pending and Unreported or Unpublished Cases
Some opinions are so new and pending that they have not yet been assigned to reporters. These early opinions are referred to as “slip opinions,” presumably because they are (or historically, were) rendered on slips of paper rather than in printed bound volumes.


50

B. CASES

Some opinions are designated “not for publication” by the issuing court, and will never be assigned an official reporter citation. Pending and unreported cases generally can be found in one of the following three source below.
R12.4.1	Pending cases inLEXIS and Westlaw or other commercial database

Citations to these electronic databases are similar to regular citations, using the database code from LEXIS or Westlaw as a substitute for the (non-existent) reporter citation. Pending-case citations have two additional components: (a) add the docket number before the database code, and (b) include the full calendar date of the decision in the following parenthetical, not just the year. Pincites are indicated with “at” and a * attached to the page number.
Citations to these electronic databases should be formatted as follows: <Case Name>, <case docket number>, <database identifier and electronic report number>, at *<star page number>
<(court, full date)>.
Example:
Yates v. United States, No. 13–7451, 2015 U.S. LEXIS 1503, at *40 (Feb. 25, 2015).
Example:
State v. Green, No. 2012AP1475–CR, 2013 WL 5811261, at *7 (Wis. Ct. App. Oct. 30, 2013).
R12.4.2	Opinions only available online, but not in a commercial database

Some cases, particularly ones that are immediately pending, may initially be accessed only through a court’s website. If so, include the exact docket number or numbers, as well as the URL.
Example:
Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Inc., No. 1728, slip op. at 1 (N.Y. App. Div. Feb. 26, 2015), http://www.nycourts.gov/reporter/3dseries/2015/2015_01728.htm.





51

The Indigo Book


For standard legal documents, we would advise generally following the rules shown in The Indigo Book, in concert with applicable tribal court rules. Tribal code citations may follow the same basic format shown in Rules R16-R17, for example:

15. N.N.C. § 614(A) (as amended by Navajo Nation Council Resolution No. CO-48-14, Nov. 7, 2014).
A case decided by a tribal judicial authority may be able to be cited consistently with Rule R11 by name, reporter, and volume—if it is printed in one of the tribal law reporters. Or it may be cited using the format for slip opinions and cases found exclusively online (R12.4.2).
Navajo Nation v. Hunter, 7 Nav. R. 194, 195 (Nav. Sup. Ct. 1996).
Corp. of the Pres. of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints v. Window Rock Dist. Ct., No. SC-CV-42-18, 2018 WL 7149968 (Nav. Sup. Ct. Dec. 28, 2018).
In re Lotus Justice, No. SC-2022-01, slip op. (Cherokee Sup. Ct. Feb. 14, 2022), https://www.cherokeecourts.org/Portals/cherokeecourts/Documents/Supreme%20Court
/Order%20and%20Opinions/SC-22-01%202-Notice%202-14-22.pdf?ver=2022-02-14
-142814-147
Abbreviations for tribal sources can be found at reference sites for Indigenous and Tribal Law such as the National Indian Law Library including its Tribal Law Gateway and Research Guides, http://www.narf.org/nill/triballaw/index.html. A table of tribal nations is available at the Bureau of Indian Affairs’ Tribal Leaders Directory for federally recognized tribes, https://www.bia.gov/service/tribal-leaders-directory. Many U.S. and Canadian law schools also have helpful research guides posted on their law library websites. For academic legal documents, follow the citation conventions set forth at the relevant publication.
R13 Weight of Authority and Explanatory Parenthetical R13.1	Parenthetical for Weight of Authority
To highlight information regarding the weight of the cited authority (such as for concurring and dissenting opinions), insert an additional parenthetical after the date parenthetical.
Remember to separate the parentheticals with a space.
Examples:
United States v. Leggett, 23 F.3d 409 (6th Cir. 1994) (unpublished table decision).



52

B. CASES

Ward v. Rock Against Racism, 491 U.S. 781 (1989) (Marshall, J., dissenting).
Harris v. State, 887 S.W.2d 514 (Ark. 1994) (per curiam).
Dep’t of Revenue v. James B. Beam Distilling Co., 377 U.S. 341, 349 (1964) (7–2 decision) (Black, J., dissenting).

R13.2 Optional Explanatory Parenthetical
To provide a supporting partial quotation or to explain the proposition for which the case stands, insert an explanatory parenthetical. See Rule R10 on the order of explanatory parentheticals with other parenthetical material and subsequent history.
Examples:
Stambovsky v. Ackley, 572 N.Y.S.2d 672, 674 (App. Div. 1991) (“[A]s a matter of law, the house is haunted.”).
People v. Foranyic, 74 Cal. Rptr. 2d 804, 807 (Ct. App. 1998) (holding that police have probable cause to detain someone they see riding a bike at 3 a.m., carrying an axe).
Dep’t of Revenue v. James B. Beam Distilling Co., 377 U.S. 341, 349 (1964) (7–2 decision) (Black, J., dissenting) (disagreeing with Justice Goldberg as to the relative merits of bourbon and scotch).





53

The Indigo Book


Tandon v. Newsom, 141 S. Ct. 1294 (2021) (per curiam).
Maryland v. King, 133 S. Ct. 1 (2012) (Roberts, C.J., in chambers).
Use the above parentheticals only if the disposition explictly indicates it is per curiam or issued by a particular justice in chambers. Other rulings are not labeled as per curiam or signed in chambers. The traditional rule for citing such decisions was to add the parenthetical “(mem.)” after the citation:
United States v. Higgs, 141 S. Ct. 645 (2021) (mem.).
The decisions falling into this category are not typically labeled “memorandum” by the Court itself; rather, this label comes from traditional citation practice to indicate what would otherwise look the same as a full opinion. Thus, we submit that other more descriptive parentheticals may be used in addition to or instead of (mem.) to indicate the posture of the decision:
United States v. Higgs, 141 S. Ct. 645 (2021) (emergency vacatur of stay and reversal, designating Indiana as state for inmate’s execution under 18 U.S.C. § 3596).
Whole Woman’s Health v. Jackson, 141 S. Ct. 2494 (2021) (mem.) (unsigned, on application for injunctive relief).
Shadow-docket decisions by the majority of the Court can be, and recently often are, accompanied by signed concurring or dissenting opinions. Dissents and other statements attached to the decision may be indicated in a similar fashion to concurrences and dissents from fully argued opinions on the merits. When one justice concurs or dissents in an opinion attached to a shadow docket decision and one or more justices join that opinion, indicate only the authoring justice. Indicate a pincite to concurring or dissenting opinions. The parenthetical (mem.) or other appropriate notation may optionally be included as well, to indicate that the concurrence or dissent is referring to an action that does not itself constitute a full formal opinion.
Ala. Ass’n of Realtors v. Dep’t of Health & Hum. Servs., 141 S. Ct. 2485, 2485 (2021) (mem.) (Roberts, C.J., concurring).
United States v. Higgs, 141 S. Ct. 645, 647 (2021) (Sotomayor, J., dissenting from vote).











54

B. CASES

R14 History of the Case

R14.1 Subsequent History
When citing a case, include the subsequent history of the case, subject to several exceptions. Refer to Table T14 for how to abbreviate explanatory phrases when introducing case history. Italicize the explanatory phrase.


INDIGO INKLING
The United States is a common law system, where court decisions play an important role in defining what the law is. To figure out the difference between good law and bad law, we have to look at the case’s subsequent history to make sure it was not vacated or reversed on the point being relied upon in a cited assertion. These types of important subsequent history are required by the Uniform System of Citation. On the other hand, some subsequent history is generally unimportant and should be omitted from the citation.
Examples include the denial of a motion for reconsideration, or the denial of a petition for certiorari in a case decided more than two years ago. See Table T3 for some state-specific variations, and of course follow local practice and local court rules on subsequent history.
Note that subsequent history is the history of that particular case in litigation. If a different case (unrelated parties but a similar legal issue) later overrules an older case’s holding, that case is no longer good law for that point—but subsequent history is not involved in the citation. This is but one example of how legal citation overlaps with legal analysis itself. If a writer is citing a case that was later overruled, the writer should not simply polish the citation’s mandatory subsequent history, but rather re-consider why to cite that “bad law” in the first place.


R14.2 Required Explanatory Phrases
Include subsequent history when necessary to protect credibility or clarify the weight of authority for the statement the citation supports. This includes most subsequent history except denials of rehearings or discretionary appeals. This also includes history on remand (which, by its nature, advances the litigation but does not change the law issued from a higher court on appeal), unless relevant to the point being made.
R14.2.1	Direct subsequent history of the litigation

Always incorporate the following explanatory phrases when applicable, italicized, and followed



55

The Indigo Book

by a comma and the citation information for the subsequent history. Include other subsequent history commensurate with this list, to indicate the weight of authority and whether the primary case being cited is good law for all or any points.

aff’d	Case was affirmed by a higher court in the same litigation.
cert. granted	Case is subject to a pending petition for certiorari that the higher court has granted.
rev’d	Case has been reversed. Note this subsequent history can be combined with rev’d en banc where applicable.
rev’d on other grounds	Case has been reversed on a different ground other
than the one for which it is being cited.


cert. denied
(only when citing a case decided less than two years ago, to show finality or for a specific point)
vacated
vacated as moot

Examples:

Case was potentially subject to a petition for certiorari, which was in fact filed but denied (thus showing this case’s finality).


Case was vacated and is no longer good law. Use
vacated as moot where the court so indicates.


In re Verizon Internet Servs., Inc., 257 F. Supp. 2d 244 (D.D.C. 2003), rev’d on other grounds, Recording Indus. Ass’n of Am., Inc. v. Verizon Internet Servs., Inc., 351 F.3d 1229 (D.C. Cir.
2003).
—Note: This subsequent history is always required because the primary case being cited has been reversed on at least one basis.
B.L. v. Mahanoy Area Sch. Dist., 964 F.3d 170 (3d Cir. 2020), cert. granted, No. 20-255 (Jan. 8, 2021).
—Note: This would be an appropriate citation while the Supreme Court’s decision and opinion remained pending. After the opinion, it is unlikely that this citation would be needed since the Supreme Court opinion itself is the final authority.
The district court’s decision withstood all layers of federal-appellate review. Energy & Env't



56

B. CASES

Legal Inst. v. Epel, 43 F. Supp. 3d 1171 (D. Colo. 2014), aff’d, 793 F.3d 1169 (10th Cir. 2015),
cert. denied, 577 U.S. 1043 (2015).
—Note: This denial of certiorari is included because it is integral to the sentence’s claim. This denial of certiorari would be appropriate even after the two-year period for including denial of petitions for certiorari had expired.
R14.2.2	Indirect subsequent history and legislative or constitutional subsequent history
Include indirect history from other subsequent litigations or collateral litigation, when the indirect history is directly negative or necessary for the point being made. The clearest example is overruled by <x>.
Include subsequent history when a case is superseded by statute or by a constitutional amendment. The subsequent legislative or constitutional history may be noted through a further (discretionary) subsequent history notation of a case recognizing it as such.
Examples:
Hemerley v. Am. Fam. Mut. Ins. Co., 379 N.W.2d 860 (Wis. Ct. App. 1985), overruled by Hull
v. St. Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., 586 N.W.2d 863 (Wis. 1998).
Schuster v. Derocili, 775 A.2d 1029 (Del. 2001), superseded by statute, 19 Del. Code Ann. § 712(b) (2005), as recognized in Yatzus v. Appoquinimink Sch. Dist., 458 F. Supp. 2d 235 (D. Del. 2006).

R14.3 Renamed Cases
When the case has a different name in the subsequent history, provide the new case name after the italicized phrase “sub nom.” (“under the name of”). There is no comma after sub nom.

Example:

Lerman v. Comm’r, 939 F.2d 44 (3d Cir. 1991), rev’d sub nom. Horn v. Comm’r, 968 F.2d 1229 (D.C. Cir. 1992).

Do not provide the new case name if either the parties’ names are merely reversed or if the subsequent history is simply a denial of certiorari or rehearing:

Correct:

United States v. Schmuck, 840 F.2d 384 (7th Cir. 1988), aff’d, 489 U.S. 705 (1989).


57

The Indigo Book

Incorrect:

United States v. Schmuck, 840 F.2d 384 (7th Cir. 1988), aff’d, Schmuck v. United States, 489 U.S. 705 (1989).

R14.4 Enslaved Persons
When the case involved an enslaved person or people as parties or at issue in the case, add a parenthetical so indicating.
Example:
Rives v. Wilborne, 6 Ala. 45, 47 (1844) (enslaved people at issue).


INDIGO INKLING
Legal citation is not just a set of formatting rules, but an expression of ethics, an expression extending far beyond the dictate to literally cite one’s sources. The ethical dimensions of legal citation encompass its broader impacts such as how these rules socialize new lawyers- in-training, how they function within the legal world, what they represent about law and its practitioners, what they omit, and what effects they cast over the law’s sphere of influence. See, e.g., Susie Salmon, Shedding the Uniform: Beyond a “Uniform System of Citation” to a More Efficient Fit, 99 Marq. L. Rev. 763 (2016); Jennifer Elisa Chapman, Citation Ethics: Toward an Ethical Framework of Legal Citation (May 29, 2021), Yale Law Library Citation and the Law Symposium (forthcoming 2021), available at https://ssrn.com/ abstract=3856202. Citation of cases involving enslaved persons are one example.
Historically, these cases were cited no differently than any other case. As of January 2021, the latest printing of The Bluebook (21st ed.) added a rule to expand the citation for such cases, which must now include a parenthetical indicating that an enslaved person or people were parties or at issue in the case. This Second Edition of The Indigo Book expresses this rule and welcomes the continued examination of legal citation rules and practices.
R15 Short Form Citation for Cases R15.1 Short Citations in Text
Once a case has been cited in full, you may refer to the case by a short-citation form. Specifically, you may refer to the case name in a textual sentence and provide shortened citation information after the sentence.


58

B. CASES

For the case name, use the chosen party’s name—usually the first-named party’s name—consistent with these rules for selecting a short-form citation and consistent with the abbreviation rules in Rule R11 for all case names (full citation or short citation). For the citation format, include the volume of the reporter, the reporter, the word “at” and the pincite to the page being cited.
Within the text sentence or (preferably) after the text sentence, provide a truncated citation sentence in the form of <volume> <Name of Reporter> at <pincite>.
Examples:
The court in Fenton also held the lower court erred in awarding damages based on loss of fair market value of property due to the flying balls. 233 N.E.2d at 219.
As the court further noted in Fenton, 233 N.E.2d at 219, the lower court erred in awarding damages based on loss of fair market value of property due to the flying balls.

R15.2	Short Citations in Citation Sentences and Clauses
Case names can be long, so various short-citation forms must be used when referring to the same case repeatedly in sequence or in scattered, interspersed references. Id. is the preferred reference if it can be used as noted below, because it is the most concise. But other short forms are frequently required for interspersed references throughout a legal document.
R15.2.1	When a short form may be used

Once a case has been cited in full, you may refer to the case by a short-citation form. Specifically, you provide a short-form citation sentence or clause with truncated information compared to the full citation. The reference must be unambiguous, and the full citation must be easily accessible earlier in the text.
Discretion may be applied to repeat the full-citation form later in a document when useful to the reader, such as after five short-form uses of id., five footnotes using id., or after a new heading or page break.
R15.2.2	Form of short citations

In general, the short citation uses the first-named party in the case name. As with full citations, the case name is italicized but the comma after the case name is not italicized. The shortened citation form omits the “v.” (for versus) and second-named party after the “v.” The shortened citation form also omits the first page of the case as found in the reporter, and simply provides an “at” with the pincite.
For cases, a short form citation usually includes: <The First Party of the Case Name>, <volume


59

The Indigo Book

number> <Reporter> at <pincite>. As shown in Rule R15.1, if the shortened case name is incorporated into the textual sentence, do not repeat that shortened name in the short-form citation after the textual sentence.
Examples (where case name not part of preceding textual sentence):
Fenton, 233 N.E.2d at 219.
Malletier, 500 F. Supp. 2d at 281.
R15.2.3	Exceptions to using the first party of the case name

Do not use the first party of the case name if that party either is a geographical or governmental unit or a party name that is used for multiple cases. Choose the second party name if needed to avoid confusion.
Examples:
United States v. Carmel, 548 F.3d 571 (7th Cir. 2008) becomes Carmel, 548 F.3d at 573.
Gonzalez v. Raich, 545 U.S. 1 (2005) becomes Raich, 545 U.S. at 8.
R15.2.4	Shortening party names

Shorten a long party name, but only if the shortening saves significant useful space and if the reference remains clear. Use a [hereinafter <x>] designation if needed.
Examples:
Home Depot USA, Inc. v. Jackson, 139 S. Ct. 1743, 1744 (2019) becomes Home Depot, 139 S. Ct. at 1744.
A Book Named “John Cleland’s Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure” v. Attorney Gen. of Mass., 383 U.S. 413, 418 (1966) [hereinafter, Memoirs] can then become Memoirs, 383 U.S. at 418.

R15.3	Id.
R15.3.1	Id. with immediately preceding citation (same page of case)

If you are citing to the same case referenced in the immediately preceding citation, use id. as the short form citation. Id. by itself refers to the same case and same pincite in that case.
Example:
When the author of a work is a judge or legislator, it carries the force of law and cannot be copyrighted. Georgia v. Public.Resource.org, 140 S. Ct. 1498, 1513 (2020). To hold otherwise would be to discourage the use of “official legal works that illuminate the law we are all



60

B. CASES

presumed to know and understand.” Id.
R15.3.2	Id. with immediately preceding citation (different page)

If you are referring to the immediately preceding case, but to a different page, use id. at
<pincite>.
Example:
Fair use is ultimately a legal question because the question “primarily involves legal work.” Google LLC v. Oracle Am., Inc., 141 S. Ct. 1183, 1199 (2021). Although “subsidiary factual questions” may be involved, the ultimate question is legal rather than factual. Id. at 1200.
R15.3.3	Id. forbidden with string citations and ambiguous references

Id. should be used only if the preceding citation cites to one source.
Correct:
In examining the third factor—the proximity of the parties’ products in the marketplace—courts assess whether the parties occupy “distinct merchandising markets.” Naked Cowboy v. CBS, 844 F. Supp. 2d 510, 517-18 (S.D.N.Y. 2012). For example, would an unsophisticated viewer confuse the source of the long-running daytime television series with another party’s street performances or his souvenirs? Id.
Incorrect:
In examining the third factor—the proximity of the parties’ products in the marketplace—courts assess whether the parties occupy “distinct merchandising markets.” Hormel Foods Corp. v. Jim Henson Prods., Inc., 73 F.3d 497, 504 (2d Cir. 1996); Naked Cowboy v. CBS, 844 F. Supp. 2d 510, 517-18 (S.D.N.Y. 2012). For example, would an unsophisticated viewer confuse the source of the long-running daytime television series with another party’s street performances or his souvenirs? Id.
Correct:
In examining the third factor—the proximity of the parties’ products in the marketplace—courts assess whether the parties occupy “distinct merchandising markets.” Hormel Foods Corp. v. Jim Henson Prods., Inc., 73 F.3d 497, 504 (2d Cir. 1996); Naked Cowboy v. CBS, 844 F. Supp. 2d 510, 517-18 (S.D.N.Y. 2012). For example, would an unsophisticated viewer confuse the source of the long-running daytime television series with another party’s street performances or his souvenirs? Naked Cowboy, 844 F. Supp. 2d at 517-18.





61

The Indigo Book


INDIGO INKLING
The short form id.—capitalized as Id. when it starts a citation sentence—can be used only to refer to the immediately preceding citation. The standard for what is immediately preceding is strict. Do not use id. simply because a full citation has been given somewhere at some point previously in the text; it is not catchall short citation but must be tailored to context.
Id. can be used after a citation to a single source (a full or a short citation, the important characteristic being a citation to one and only one source). Id. cannot follow a string citation listing two or more sources. It also cannot be used after any intervening textual reference, such as mentioning a different case or other authority by name. Citing multiple sources in a string or mentioning other intervening sources creates possible ambiguity and thus makes id. unhelpful and incorrect.
There is one exception to this strict construction of when to use id. If the preceding citation includes a parenthetical citing a case within that parenthetical, that citation-within-a- citation does not foreclose the use of id. In that scenario, id. may be used to cite back to the immediately preceding citation to which the citation-within-a-citation is attached. Thus, a source cited parenthetically does not become the immediately preceding citation. This is structurally different from a string citation. Do not use id. after a string citation, even to attempt to refer to the final citation in the string.































62

C. STATUTES, RULES, REGULATIONS, AND OTHER LEGISLATIVE & ADMINISTRATIVE
MATERIALS


C. STATUTES, RULES, REGULATIONS, AND OTHER LEGISLATIVE & ADMINISTRATIVE MATERIALS

R16 Federal Statutes

INDIGO INKLING
Federal statutes, like most state statutes, use the § symbol to indicate the specific codified section. Traditionally, the section symbol is always followed by a space—for example, § 107 or §§ 106-107 for a span of sections.
Even though the Uniform System of Citation dictates a space between § and the section number, sometimes in practice that space is intentionally and systematically omitted. The United States Supreme Court itself does not use the space, and some SCOTUS briefs do while others do not (per an unscientific review of 2021 opinions and briefs). The decision may be strategic in briefs subject to a word-count rule such as the 13,000-word maximum imposed by Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 32. The Bluebook, however, does not on its face permit this deviation.
The Bluebook has very recently, however, acknowledged the role of word counts in another context: whether to keep the space between F. and Supp. in F. Supp. or between S. and Ct. in S. Ct. This space is technically required by the Uniform System of Citation’s rule that adjacent capitals like S.E. may be closed up, but a capital may not close up with an abbreviation that is not a single capital, like Ct. in S. Ct. As of 2020, The Bluebook’sBluepages Rule B6 softened its stance, advising writers they may close up other traditionally expected spaces in S. Ct. and F. Supp. 2d so as to conserve space. In a potentially controversial (?) stance, we submit that closing up the space between the section symbol and section number may be an equivalent acceptable deviation from traditional citation mechanics, for writers facing word-count pressure. The Supreme Court and members of the Supreme Court Bar do it even when holding a client’s case in their hands.
So maybe you can too.


R16.1 Basic Citation Forms for Federal Statutes
R16.1.1	United States Code

For citations to the current United States Code (the official code of the United States and thus the preferred citation), cite the title, the United States Code, the section symbol or symbols,


63

The Indigo Book

and section number or numbers being cited. The name of the Act being cited may be included before the citation, if appropriate.
<title> U.S.C. § <section number>.
<Name of Act [optional]>, <title> U.S.C. § <section number>.
Examples:
17 U.S.C. § 107.
18 U.S.C. § 1030.
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. §§ 301-399i.


R16.1.2	Year optional for current sections of the United States Code

The year in a United States Code citation is optional if the citation refers to the current codified statute. Omitting the year from a U.S.C. citation indicates the most current version of the federal statute being cited, whether that current version is published in the codified edition or a more recent supplement issued to amend the codified edition.
R16.1.3	Historical citations to the United States Code

The U.S.C. is codified once every six years, with various supplements issued in the interim six years between codification. For historical citations to previous versions of the United States Code, citations should be to the appropriate codifying year (e.g., 2000, 2006, 2012). Cite the most recent edition that includes the version of the statute being cited. If you are citing to a historical version of a statute first published in a supplement published in the interim period between official codifications, be sure to consult the supplements, indicate the supplement’s title and year of publication in the citation.
Example:
Communications Act of 1934, 47 U.S.C. § 223 (2012 & Supp. I 2013).
R16.1.4	Unofficial annotated U.S. codes

If the U.S.C. cite is not available, then cite to an unofficial code such as U.S. Code Annotated or
U.S. Code Service. The citation form is
<title> U.S.C.A. § <section number> (West).
<title> U.S.C.S. § <section number> (LexisNexis).






64

C. STATUTES, RULES, REGULATIONS, AND OTHER LEGISLATIVE & ADMINISTRATIVE
MATERIALS

R16.1.5	Year in unofficial U.S. code citations

As with the United States Code, the year is not required in citations to the current code.
Examples:
5 U.S.C.A. § 572 (West).
5 U.S.C.S. § 572 (LexisNexis).
For citations where the date is relevant or for historical code citations, indicate the date parenthetically. The date consist of the year through which the code section is current, or may include “current through” an exact date or legislative session, if relevant.
Examples:
5 U.S.C.A. § 572 (West 2021).
5 U.S.C.S. § 572 (LexisNexis current through July 22, 2021).
R16.1.6	Parallel citations to original section numbers

The original section numbering of enacted legislation does not inherently correspond to the section numbering in codified statutes. When naming and citing an Act in its original enacted form and in its codified form, include parallel citations to original section number in the Act, and the codified location.
Use the following form: <Name of Statute> <original section number>, <title> <Abbreviation for Name of Statutory Code> § <section number> <(<Name of Publisher, but only if citing unofficial code> <year published>)>.
Examples:
Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act § 202, 17 U.S.C. § 271(e). Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 § 103, 17 U.S.C.A. § 1201 (West).
R16.1.7 Official session laws
If neither a United States Code or unofficial annotated code citation is available, then cite to the Public Law Number and parallel official session laws (i.e., the Statutes at Large). Omit the year of passage if it is part of the Act’s name. For a citation without a pincite, use the following format: <Name of Statute,> Pub. L. No. <	>, <volume> Stat. <page number> <(year passed)>.
The citation may include pincite to the specific section in the original Act and the page in the session laws. For a citation with a pincite, use the following format: <Name of Statute,> Pub. L. No. <	>, <original section number>, <volume> Stat. <page number>, <page pinpoint>


65

The Indigo Book

<(year passed)>.
Examples:
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Pub. L. No. 111-148, § 1101, 124 Stat. 119, 141-43
(2010).
Family Sponsor Immigration Act of 2002, Pub. L. No. 107-150, 116 Stat. 74.

R16.2 Short Citations
After a full citation to the United States Code or alternative (or session laws), a short form may be used. These short citations may take various forms but must clearly identify the reference including the pincite.
Examples:
§ 107.
Id.
Id. § 106.
First Step Act of 2018 § 401.
§ 401, 132 Stat. at 5220.



R17	State Statutes

R17.1 Official State Codes
You should cite state statutes to official codes if at all possible. State code compilations are ranked by order of preference shown in Table T3. State code citations may require the publisher’s name, as shown in Table T3.




66

C. STATUTES, RULES, REGULATIONS, AND OTHER LEGISLATIVE & ADMINISTRATIVE
MATERIALS

R17.2 Forms of Citation to State Codes
R17.2.1	Basic citations to state codes

A citation to a state code must include the code’s name (abbreviated) and identifying information such as the code volume and section number being cited. State-code formats vary by state. See Table T3. The citation must also include a parenthetical providing the publisher’s name if necessary for an unofficial citation, as shown in Table T3; and the current year of that code. State code citations are never underlined (even if they appear underlined in online hyperlinked sources.)
Examples:
Fla. Stat. § 90.506 (2020).
O.C.G.A. § 51-3-22 (2020).
18 Pa. Cons. Stat. § 30.3 (2020).
R17.2.2	State codes by subject matter

Some state codes use subject-matter abbreviations in their citation formats. Follow Table T3 and the abbreviations shown there to cite such codes.
Examples:
Tex. Est. Code Ann. § 251.107 (West 2019).
N.Y. Arts & Cult. Aff. Law § 60.03 (McKinney 2020).

R17.3 Year of State Code
Provide the year of the state code’s edition or publication date in a parenthetical. Do not include the year the statutory provision was passed.
Example:
Del. Code tit. 8, § 145 (2021).
Ohio Rev. Code Ann. § 2927.27 (2021).
Tex. Civ. Prac. & Rem. Code Ann. § 27.001 (West 2021).




67

The Indigo Book



R17.4 Statutes Not in Force
To cite a statute no longer in force, refer to its most recent available citation. The citation must also include a parenthetical indicating the statute’s subsequent negative history.
Example:
Ala. Code § 13A-12-5(a)(1) (repealed 2015).

R17.5	Short Citations
State codes may be cited in a short form after the first full citation, using a short form that clearly identifies what is being cited. The short form may include most of the full citation except the publisher and year. Or the short form may take an even more truncated format if clear.
Examples:
§ 27.001.
Id.
Id. § 209.

R18 Rules of Procedure and Evidence, Restatements, and Uniform Acts

R18.1 Rules of Evidence and Procedure
R18.1.1	Federal and state rules

Cite current federal or state rules by indicating the abbreviation of the source, followed by the rule number. Do not use a section symbol (§) when citing rules of evidence or procedure, unless using a jurisdiction-specific citation form that requires it. Do not include a date for current rules of evidence or procedure. Include the date of repeal if citing a historical rule no longer in force, and other appropriate information in a parenthetical.




68

C. STATUTES, RULES, REGULATIONS, AND OTHER LEGISLATIVE & ADMINISTRATIVE
MATERIALS

Examples:
Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(1). Fed. R. App. P. 1.
Mo. R. Civ. P. 67.01.
N.J. R. Evid. 406.
R18.1.2	Uniform rules

Cite uniform rules in the same manner as for state or federal rules. Follow how the rules indicate they should be cited as well as how they are in fact cited.
R18.1.3	Abbreviations

In citation sentences and clauses, follow customary abbreviations for the rules being cited. As with all state citations, local customs and rules may differ.
Examples:


R18.2 Restatements, Model Rules, and Uniform Acts
Cite Restatements by indicating the title of the particular Restatement cited, including the ordinal edition such as Restatement (Third) spelled out.
Follow the title and edition with the number of the section being cited and, parenthetically, the publisher and the year that edition was published. Use the following form: Restatement (<spelled ordinal>) of <Subject Matter> <: Subject-Matter Subtitle (if applicable)> § <section number> (<publisher> <year published>).
A comment may be indicated by its letter designation after the Restatement section. Comments



69

The Indigo Book

are abbreviated “cmt.”
Examples:
Restatement (Second) of Trusts § 46 (Am. L. Inst. 1959).
Restatement (Third) of the Law Governing Lawyers § 2 cmt. e (Am. L. Inst. 2000). Restatement (Third) of Prop.: Servitudes § 7.1 (Am. L. Inst. 2000).
Do not abbreviate or use numerical form for the ordinal portion of the Restatement title such as “(Second)”. You may optionally abbreviate words in the Restatement title as noted in Table T11, such as “Property” as “Prop.” Try to avoid awkward and non-traditional abbreviations such as “Restatement (Third) of Conflict of Ls.” and “Restatement (Second) of Conts.” Use the option to abbreviate words of eight letters or more such as “Enrichment” as “Enrich.” if desired, avoiding ambiguity with established abbreviations.


INDIGO INKLING
The recent history of Restatement citations is a good case study in how citation formats evolve and are influenced by user feedback and advocacy. As of the 19th edition of The Bluebook, published in 2010, Restatement citations followed a fairly slim format:
Restatement (Second) of Trusts § 46 (1959).
The 20th edition of The Bluebook, published in 2015, added the requirement of parenthetically indicating the institutional author along with the year in citations to Restatements, Uniform Acts, and Model Rules:
Restatement (Second) of Trusts § 46 (Am. Law Inst. 1959).
 See Richard L. Revesz, The American Law Institute and the Bluebook, The ALI Reporter (Fall 2015), at 3, https://www.ali.org/news/articles/ali-reporter-fall-2015/ (noting that this new citation format was added to The Bluebook at the request of the American Law Institute to protect the American Law Institute’s brand and the influence of its work). The 21st edition of The Bluebook, published in 2020, stated a slightly modifed citation:
Restatement (Second) of Trusts § 46 (Am. L. Inst. 1959).
As of 2020, this relatively recent citation development may be appropriate in scholarly legal writing and is used by law reviews closely implementing the latest version of The Bluebook specifically. This suggested citation format has been picked up by some courts but does not appear to have been systematically adopted as of 2022. See, e.g., Gallardo by & through




70

C. STATUTES, RULES, REGULATIONS, AND OTHER LEGISLATIVE & ADMINISTRATIVE
MATERIALS


R18.3 Uniform Commercial Code
Citations to the Uniform Commercial Code take the following form: U.C.C. § <section number> (<publisher> <year published>). In academic legal documents and other contexts where the publisher is important to note, add the publisher in the first full citation.
Examples:
U.C.C. § 9-105.
U.C.C. § 9-105 (Am. L. Inst. & Unif. L. Comm’n 1977).

R18.4 Other Uniform Laws and Similar Sources
Use a similar format for other uniform laws, following the general abbreviations in Table T11.
Examples:
Unif. Trade Secrets Act § 1(4) (Unif. L. Comm’n 1985) (as amended).
U.S. Sentencing Guidelines Manual § 6A1.5 (U.S. Sentencing Comm’n 2018).
R19	Administrative Rules and Regulations R19.1 Federal Rules
R19.1.1	General format for administrative rules

Citations to federal administrative rules and regulations take the following form for citing a section. Provide as specific and precise a citation as the source allows.
<title number of C.F.R. provision> C.F.R. § <section number> <(year published)>.
Examples:
36 C.F.R. § 272.1 (2020).
21 C.F.R. § 133.113 (2020).
R19.1.2	C.F.R. parts

Citations to a part (that is a particular, defined “Part”) of the C.F.R. take the following form.:



71

The Indigo Book

<title number of C.F.R. provision> C.F.R. pt. <part number> <(year published)>.
R19.1.3	Optional name

If the regulation is generally referred to by name or listing the name and/or the name of the agency issuing the regulation would otherwise improve clarity, include it at the beginning of the citation. Citations to administrative rules and regulations that include the regulation name take the following form:
<Name of the Regulation and/or Name of the Agency Promulgating the Regulation>, <title no. of C.F.R. provision> C.F.R. § <section number> <(year published)>.
Examples:
DOE Employee Standards of Conduct with Regard to Privacy, 10 C.F.R. § 1008.3 (2020). FDA Standards of Identity for Food, 21 C.F.R. Parts 130 to 169 (2020).

R19.2 State Regulations
Cite state regulations following the federal format when permitted by the structure and form of the state’s source material. State regulations vary widely from state to state in their structure and form; thus, the appropriate citation to a state regulation—particularly for use within that state—may require consulting a state-specific citation manual such as those listed in Table T3.
Examples:


R19.3 Agency Adjudications, Arbitrations, Orders, and Other Actions
R19.3.1	Adjudications

Agency adjudications are similar to case citations but more streamlined. Use only the first- listed private party. Omit all procedural words such as “In re” and similar. See Table T2 of The Indigo Book for specific guidance on citing agency adjudications and arbitration citations.



72

C. STATUTES, RULES, REGULATIONS, AND OTHER LEGISLATIVE & ADMINISTRATIVE
MATERIALS

Example:
Tegna, Inc., 367 N.L.R.B. No. 71 (Jan. 17, 2019).
R19.3.2	Arbitrations

Agency arbitrations follow the format for case citations (Rule R11) if they have adversary parties and the citation for an agency adjudication (Rule R19.3.1) if they do not. Indicate the arbitrator’s name and abbreviated title Arb. at the end of the citation.
R19.3.3	Parallel citations

Provide a citation to an official or unofficial reporter if available. If an official publication is not available at all or not yet for the adjudication, cite to the agency’s website using a similar format to citing unpublished cases (Rule R11.3.4) and electronic sources (Rule R32). A citation to a proprietary database is permitted and may be helpful but is not required.
Examples:
Landrys Inc., 199 L.R.R.M. (BL) ¶ 2103 (N.L.R.B. Div. of Judges June 26, 2014).
Online Political Files of Trending Media, Inc., File No.: POL-070121-27365113 (FCC Feb. 12, 2021) (order and attached consent decree), https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DA-21
-156A1.pdf.
Ronnie v. Office Depot, Inc., Arb. Case No. 2019-0020, ALJ Case No. 2018-SOX-00006 (Dep’t of Labor Sept. 29, 2020), https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/OALJ/PUBLIC/ARB
/DECISIONS/ARB_DECISIONS/SOX/19_020_SOXP.PDF.
Amazon, Inc. and Amazon Logistics, Inc., File No. 1923123, 2021 WL 489846 (FTC Feb. 2, 2021) (agreement containing consent order), https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/documents
/cases/amazon_flex_order_with_no_signatures.pdf.
R19.3.4	Pincites

Pincite to specific pages in the document by using page numbers, paragraph numbers, star pagination to proprietary page numbers, or another appropriate pincite reference. See Rule R5.

R19.4 Proposed Rules
Include the proposed rule’s title, citation to the Federal Register, and date of proposal:
<Title of Proposed Rule> , <Volume> Fed. Reg. <Page> , <(proposed on <date rule was proposed>)> (to be codified at <intended C.F.R. citation>)>, <URL where Proposed Rule can be found>.



73

The Indigo Book

If the proposed rule is not yet included in the Federal Register, provide a citation to the agency’s website including docket number if available and URL.

R19.5 Comments Filed with Agencies
R19.5.1	Comments generally

Include the commenter’s name and the proposed rule that is the subject of comment, followed by the exact date and URL:
<Commenter’s name>, Comment on <Proposed Rule Being Commented Upon, including optional citation in the Federal Register (<date>) <(date of comment filed)>, <URL of Comment if available and helpful>.
Include the docket number or comment number in the citation, if applicable and helpful.
Examples:
Georgia Dep’t of Agric., Public Submission on the FDA’s Comprehensive, Multi-Year Nutrition Innovation Strategy (Aug. 23, 2018), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FDA-2018-N
-2381-0690.
Georgia Dep’t of Agric., Public Submission on the FDA’s Comprehensive, Multi-Year Nutrition Innovation Strategy (83 Fed. Reg. 30180 (June 27, 2018)) (comment submitted Aug. 23, 2018), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FDA-2018-N-2381-0690.
R19.5.2	Comments with subsequent agency response

When citing a comment in which administrative procedure requires an agency response and when the agency has in fact issued its response, supplement or replace the URL of the comment standing alone to add citation information for the rule appendix or other source containing both the comment and the agency response.




74

C. STATUTES, RULES, REGULATIONS, AND OTHER LEGISLATIVE & ADMINISTRATIVE
MATERIALS


federal sources, or citing general federal sources plus additional parallel citations, cross- references, and/or URLs. Those who work frequently with a particular agency will often rely more heavily on the agency’s website or other sources than on general publication in the Federal Register.
For example, a generic citation to agency work by the Federal Communications Commission might look like this, following the overall Uniform System of Citation:
Rates for Interstate Inmate Calling Services, 85 Fed. Reg. 67,450 (Oct. 23, 2020) (to be codified at 47 C.F.R. pt. 64); Rates for Interstate Inmate Calling Services, 85 Fed. Reg. 67,480 (proposed Oct. 23, 2020) (to be codified at 47 C.F.R. pt. 64).
But an attorney or policy advocate knowledgeable about FCC customs might cite the source more like the following, knowing that the Federal Register documents are only a summary of the FCC's full document, released more than two months after the FCC's initial release of the document, and missing the separate statements of FCC commissioners on the document:
Rates for Interstate Inmate Calling Services, Report and Order on Remand and Fourth Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, WC Docket No. 12-375, 35 FCC Rcd. 8485 (Aug. 7, 2020), https://www.fcc.gov/document/fcc-seeks-reduce-rates-and-charges-inmate-calling- services-0.
Table T1 provides more detailed information about federal-agency practice, and Table T3 provides information on state-specific administrative-law citations (acknowledging that comprehensive treatment of state practice is beyond the scope of The Indigo Book). For work focused on particular agencies, any overall source expressing the Uniform System of Citation should be supplemented by obtaining agency-specific citation guides, studying recent samples of work in that agency, and working with experienced practitioners. For these examples, we are grateful to Blake Reid, Clinical Professor and Director of the Samuelson-Glushko Technology Law & Policy Clinic at the University of Colorado School of Law.
R20	Federal Taxation Materials R20.1 Internal Revenue Code
Citations to the Internal Revenue Code take either of two forms—the United States Code or the Internal Revenue Code (which inherently refers to Title 26 of the United States Code). Either way, these citations do not include the year when the citation refers to the current year of the


75

The Indigo Book

Code.
R20.1.1	I.R.C.

Citations to the code itself take the following form: I.R.C. § <section number> .
R20.1.2	Title 26 of the United States Code

Citations to Title 26 of the United States Code, which is where the Internal Revenue Code is codified, take the following form: 26 U.S.C. § <section number>.
Examples:
I.R.C. § 312.
26 U.S.C. § 312.
R20.1.3	Unofficial codes

Indicate the publisher if citing to an unofficial code. Do not indicate the year when citing the current unofficial code, but do include the year if citing a past edition or dated supplement.

R20.2 Treasury Regulations
The Department of the Treasury issues Treasury Regulations pursuant to § 7805 of the Internal Revenue Code. Treasury Regulations are codified in Title 26 of the Code of Federal Regulations (“C.F.R.”), but should be cited as “Treas. Reg.” according to the following form: Treas. Reg. §
<section number> <(year published)>. If the regulation is temporary, then begin the citation with Temp. Treas. Reg. instead.
Examples:
Treas. Reg. § 1.414(r)-8 (1994).
Temp. Treas. Reg. § 1.274-5T(6) (1985).

R20.3 Treasury Determinations
Cite Revenue Rulings (“Rev. Rul.”), Revenue Procedures (“Rev. Proc.”), and Treasury Decisions (“T.D.”) to the following sources, in the following order of preference: (1) Cumulative Bulletin (“C.B.”); (2) Internal Revenue Bulletin (“I.R.B.”); then (3) Treasury Decisions Under Internal Revenue Laws (“Treas. Dec. Int. Rev.”).
Examples:
Rev. Rul. 81-225, 1981-2 C.B. 12.



76

C. STATUTES, RULES, REGULATIONS, AND OTHER LEGISLATIVE & ADMINISTRATIVE
MATERIALS

Rev. Proc. 97-27, 1997-21 I.R.B. 11.
T.D. 2135, 17 Treas. Dec. Int. Rev. 39 (1915).

R20.4 Private Letter Rulings
Cite Private Letter Rulings using the following format: I.R.S. P.L. R. <ruling number> (<exact date>).
Example:
I.R.S. P.L.R. 202121010 (May 28, 2021).

R21	Legislative Materials

R21.1 Federal Bills and Resolutions
If unenacted, cite as follows: <name of bill, if helpful>, <abbreviation from the list below> <bill number>, <number of the Congress> <section, if not citing the entire bill> <year of publication>, with additional information when needed to distinguish between different versions of the bill in a given Congress. Abbreviate the names of subcommittees and committees according to the form set out in Table T5, Table T11, and Table T12. As shown below, select an abbreviation based on the type of bill or resolution:

Examples:
S. 812, 108th Cong. (2003).


77

The Indigo Book

Clinical Social Work Medicare Equality Act of 2001, S. 1083, 107th Cong. § 2(b) (2001). ABLE Act of 2014, H.R. 647, 113th Cong. (as passed by House, Dec. 3, 2014).
H.R. 1746, 111th Cong. § 2(c)(4) (as reported by H. Comm. on Transp. and Infrastructure, Apr. 23, 2009).
H.R. Res. 431, 114th Cong. (2015).
S.J. Res. 12, 109th Cong. (2005).



R21.2 Enacted Federal Bills and Resolutions
Once enacted, bills and joint resolutions are statutes subject to codification and should be cited as such following Rule R16.1. For citations to the legislation’s history (rather than as a codified statute), cite them as unenacted bills or resolutions. Cite enacted simple resolutions and concurrent resolutions as if they were unenacted, but add an “(enacted)” parenthetical if it would be helpful.

R21.3 State Bills and Resolutions
Cite state bills and resolutions as follows: <number of bill or resolution>, <number, or year if unnumbered, of the legislative body>, <number or designation of the legislative session> (<name of state, abbreviated as in Table T12 and year of enactment or publication, if unenacted>).



78

C. STATUTES, RULES, REGULATIONS, AND OTHER LEGISLATIVE & ADMINISTRATIVE
MATERIALS

Example:
L.D. 3, 127th Leg., Reg. Sess. (Me. 2015).

R21.4 Committee Hearings
R21.4.1	Congressional committee hearings

Cite committee hearings as follows: <full title of hearing>: Hearing on <bill number, if any> Before the <name of committee or subcommittee>, <number of the Congress> <optional pincite to page number> <year of publication> <name and title of speaker>. For the names of subcommittees and committees, abbreviate according to the form set out in Table T5, Table T11, and Table T12. For the names of individuals, use Table T10.
R21.4.2	State committee hearings

For state committee hearings, cite as follows: <full title of hearing>: Hearing on <bill number, if any> Before the <name of committee or subcommittee>, <number of the legislative session>
<optional pincite to page number> <abbreviation for the state’s name from Table T12> <year of publication> <name and title of speaker>. Use the same abbreviation resources as for Congressional committee hearings.

Examples:

Cell Tax Fairness Act of 2008: Hearing on H.R. 5793 Before the Subcomm. on Commercial and Administrative Law of the H. Comm. on the Judiciary, 110th Cong. 12 (2008) (statement of Zoe Lofgren, Member, H. Comm. on the Judiciary).

Welfare and Poverty in America: Hearing before the S. Comm. on Fin., 114th Cong. (2015) (statement of Dr. Pamela Loprest, Senior Fellow, Urban Institute).

Testimony from invited guests addressing the use of eminent domain in the State: Hearing before the Assemb. Commerce and Econ. Dev. Com., 2006–2007 Sess. 5 (N.J. 2006) (statement of Guy R. Gregg, Assemblyman).

Hearing on L.D. 319 Before the Health and Human Servs. Comm., 127th Leg., Reg. Sess. (Me. 2015) (statement of Susan Lamb, Executive Director, Maine Chapter of the National Association of Social Workers).







79

The Indigo Book

R21.5 Federal Congressional Reports
R21.5.1	Report citations

Cite numbered federal reports as follows: <name of house, in small caps> Rep. No. <number of the Congress, followed by a hyphen and the number of the report>, <at optional pincite> <year of publication> <parenthetical to indicate conference report, if applicable>.
Examples:
S. Rep. No. 106-261, at 441 (2000).
H.R. Rep. No. 110-803, at 105 (2008) (Conf. Rep.).
R21.5.2	Other legislative materials

Citations to federal and state non-statutory legislative materials, including legislative history and unenacted bills, aren’t expressed in a uniform manner, but generally include the following elements:

• title, if available,
• name of legislative body, abbreviated
• section number, page no. or number of report
• number of Congress and/or legislative session
• (publication year)
• (if the bill or resolution was enacted). Only include this additional parenthetical if the bill was enacted; if unenacted, you don’t need to add anything extra.

Examples:
Paycheck Fairness Act, H.R. 11, 111th Cong. § 203 (2009).
American Clean Energy and Security Act, H.R. 2454, 111th Cong. (2009).
S. 2318, 112th Cong. (2013) (enacted).
R22 Short Form Citation of Legislative and Administrative Materials R22.1	General short-citation forms
For subsequent citations in the same general discussion after a first full citation, short forms that clearly identify the source are permissible.





80

C. STATUTES, RULES, REGULATIONS, AND OTHER LEGISLATIVE & ADMINISTRATIVE
MATERIALS

R22.2 Id.
Id. may be used to identify the immediately preceding source consistent with Rule R6. Id. can be used for different subsections of the same code title and section, or for different code sections within the same title. A subsequent citation to a different title of that code necessitates a more complete short-form citation than Id.


R23 Sources and Authorities: Constitutions

R23.1 United States Constitution
Citations to the federal Constitution follow a simple form, using abbreviations from Table T12 (state names) and Table T13 (document subdivisions).
For current Constitutional provisions, do not include a date. Parenthetical information may be added consistent with Rule R10, such as for repeal or amendment.
The format is as follows: <U.S. Const.> <cited section of constitution, abbreviated> <number of article or amendment in Roman numeral form> <§ and pinpoint, if applicable> <(additional information, if needed)>.
Examples:
U.S. Const. amend. XIII, § 1.
U.S. Const. amend. XVIII (repealed 1933).
U.S. Const. pmbl.

R23.3 State Constitutions
Citations to state constitutions are expressed the same format, substituting the abbreviated name of the state following Table T12 and document subdivisions in Table T13.
Examples:
Ariz. Const. art. XVI, § 2.


81

The Indigo Book

N.D. Const. art. III, § 1.

R23.4 Short Forms
Federal and state constitutions do not have a shorter alternative form for use after the first full citation. They should be cited in full each time used. It is permissible, however, to use id. for sequential citations to the same constitutional provision.



















































82

D. COURT & LITIGATION DOCUMENTS


D. COURT & LITIGATION DOCUMENTS

INDIGO INKLING
Section B of The Indigo Book (Rules R11-R15) focuses on citations to “cases”—that is judicial opinions, both published and unpublished. But not everything a court issues is an “opinion.” An opinion states the court’s legal basis and reasoning for that decision. An order manages and directs the litigation in a particular case. Rules R24-27 address court and litigation documents, and here we note the connection to case citations.
Citing orders to a court during active litigation in that court will vary and depend on that court’s own rules and customs. In contexts outside the litigation, orders should be cited consistently with the opinion rules in Rule R12.4.1 Thus, an order in a 2022 labor dispute involving a Memphis Starbucks would be cited differently when participating in the litigation and outside of it.
Briefing in the context of the litigation:
(ECF No. 45 at PageID 478, n. 1).
Citation in public contexts outside the litigation:
McKinney v. Starbucks Corp., No. 2:22-cv-02292, Order Denying in Part and Granting in Part Motion of Workers United to Intervene or, in the Alternative, to Participate as Amicus Curiae, at 2, n. 1 (W.D. Tenn. May 10, 2022).
ECF and Page ID page citations vary court by court, and full coverage of the Case Management/Electronic Case Files system and PACER is beyond the scope of The Indigo Book. We note our support for open-access initiatives such as RECAP, which is a searchable online archive, browser extension, and email alert capturing utility made available by the Free Law Project and Center for Information Technology Policy at Princeton.


R24	Documents Filed in the Same Case
At the trial stage, court and litigation documents take a variety of forms such as pleadings, affidavits, discovery requests and responses, motions, and court orders, just to name a few. On appeal, the record below may become a formal numbered “Record” with its own page references. Documents for use on appeal may also take the form of an appendix or joint appendix.
In federal court, court and litigation documents must be filed with the federal government’s



83

The Indigo Book

Case Management/Electronic Case Files system, variously known as CM/ECF (for case management and electronic case filing, respectively) and PACER (for accessing case materials). Thus, federal court documents have traditional document names, pagination, and in some types of pleading documents, paragraph designations provided by the filer; as well as an assigned ECF number for the document and PageID numbering within the document provided by the CM/ECF system.

R24.1 Document Title
Consult the document abbreviations in Table T18. Follow it in the absence of more specific rules or guidance from local rules. When abbreviating document names, other abbreviations may be employed for long words (typically seven or more letters) if clear and helpful to the reader. Always abbreviate an official record, such as the appellate record, to “R.” Do not abbreviate if the abbreviation would confuse the reader.
Examples:
Compl. for Copyright Infringement ¶ 11. Def.’s Second Am. Answer ¶ 28.
Jones Dep. 8:24-9:5.
Def. Acme’s Resp. to Pl. Morrison’s Req. for Admis. No. 2.A.
R. at 22.
J.A. at 137.

R24.2 Pincites to Page, Page and Line, or Paragraph
For court and litigation documents other than an appellate record, provide the exact page or paragraph. Where line numbers are available such as in deposition transcripts, also provide the line being referred to. Do not use “p.” before a page number, but refer to pages with “at <x>.”
R24.2.1	Pincites to the appellate record

Generally cite the appellate record with an “at.” Record citations also sometimes omit the “at” to save on a word count. Most importantly, be accurate and be internally consistent.
Examples:
R. at 2.
R. 2.



84

D. COURT & LITIGATION DOCUMENTS

R24.2.2	Page and line pincites Use a colon to separate page and line. Example:
Smith Dep. 5:21–6:10.
R24.2.3	Commas

Use commas if necessary to avoid confusion. When abbreviating both a document name and an exhibit to that document, add a comma after the Exhibit reference before the pincite.
Example:
Smith Dep. Ex. 12, at 3.

R24.3 Date of Document
Include the date of the document if the date is particularly relevant or if omitting the date could cause confusion.
Examples:
Miller Aff. ¶ 8, Jan. 12, 2015.
Pl.’s Br. 4–5, May 7, 2014.
Trial Tr. vol. 3, 45, Mar. 5, 2015.

R24.4 Electronic Case Filing Number
Include an ECF number whenever a document has been filed electronically. Find the ECF number on PACER, a federal case management system that assigns each case document a document number. Use the page number on the original document, not the Page ID reference added by the ECF system upon filing, except in citations provided to a court where applicable court rules require using the ECF’s Page ID reference.
Examples:
Pl.’s Compl. ¶ 12, ECF No. 147.
Sanchez Dep. 1:1–2, Jan. 3, 2005, ECF No. 8.
Example where Page ID required:
(Petition for Temporary Injunction Pursuant to Section 10(j) of the National Labor Relations Act ¶ 6, ECF No. 1 at Page ID 3-6.)


85

The Indigo Book

R24.5 Parentheses or Brackets
Citations to court or litigation documents may stand alone as citation sentences or clauses, or may be enclosed in parentheses or brackets. If using parenthesis or brackets, place the period outside the closing parenthesis or closing bracket. As with all types of citations, following applicable court rules and maintaining internal consistency in a document are crucial.
Examples:
J.A. at 182.
R. 24.
(Resp. Br. 18).
[R. at 7].

R25 Court or Litigation Documents from Other Cases
Dockets and litigation documents are widely available now in commercial databases and other platforms. This rule describes how to cite litigation documents in other documents, not for litigation in that particular case, which is governed by Rule R24. This rule does, however, draw on Rule R24 as a partial basis for the citation, with additional citation information as shown here.

R25.1 General Format in Published Cases
After citing to the document according to Rule R24 above, add the full citation for the case where it comes from, and the case docket number in parentheses. An additional citation to a commercial database may be added (optional).
<Name of document> <pincite> , <Citation to case in which document was filed> (<docket number in parenthesis>), <optional commercial database identifier or webpage URL>.
Example:
Compl. 5, Parsell v. Shell Oil Co., 421 F. Supp. 1275 (D. Conn. 1976) (Civ. No. B-700).
Pl.’s Resp. to Defs.’ Mot. for Summ. J. 14, Martinez-Mendoza v. Champion Int’l Corp., 340 F.3d 1200 (11th Cir. 2003) (No. 06-19139).
Brief for Brendan Keefe in His Official Capacity as Investigative Reporter for 11Alive Atlanta, and WXIA-TV as Amici Curiae in Support of Respondent, Georgia v. Public.Resource.org, Inc., 140 S. Ct. 1498 (2020) (No. 18-1150), 2019 WL 5391110.




86

D. COURT & LITIGATION DOCUMENTS

R25.2 Pending or Undecided Cases
If there has been no decision in the case you’re citing, then provide the name of the document and pincite, followed by the docket number, the date in parentheses, and other optional information to direct the reader.
<Name of document> <pincite>, <Name of case>, <docket number>, (<exact date of document being cited>) <optional commercial database identifier or webpage URL>.
Examples:
Compl. ¶ 2, Jones v. Smith, No. 09-230 (9th Cir. Apr. 17, 2015), ECF No. 2.
Pet. for Writ of Cert. at 6, Crowe v. Ore. St. Bar, No. 20-1678 (May 27, 2021), https://www.scotusblog.com/case-files/cases/crowe-v-oregon-state-bar/.

R25.3 Oral Argument Audio and Transcripts
Provide the title indicating Oral Argument for an audio citation and Transcript for a transcript citation. Pincite to the minute or page. Provide the case name, citation of the case, and the year parenthetically.
Examples:
Oral Argument at 32:50, Georgia v. Public.Resource.org, 140 S. Ct. 1498 (2020) (No. 18-1150), https://www.oyez.org/cases/2019/18-1150.
Transcript of Oral Argument at 5, Ramos v. Louisiana, 140 S. Ct. 1390 (2020) (No. 18-5924), https://www.supremecourt.gov/oral_arguments/argument_transcripts/2019/
18-5924_4gcj.pdf.

R26	Short Form Citation for Court and Litigation Documents
Use a short form citation for court documents when the full citation is close enough to be useful and the short form used is clear and helpful. Note that court documents may be cited using supra. Don’t use “id.” for court documents, unless it saves a lot of space. In particular do not use id. for record citations.
Examples:


87

The Indigo Book


Full Form (Original citation)	Short Form Citation (subsequent reference)
Cir. 2003) (No. 06-19139).	1200 (No. 06-19139).


Decl. of Martha Woodmansee at 7, Salinger v. Colting, 641 F. Supp. 2d 250 (S.D.N.Y. 2010) (No. 09 Civ.
05095).

Decl. of Martha Woodmansee at 7,
Salinger, 641 F. Supp. 2d 250 (No. 09
Civ. 05095).


R27 Capitalization in Court Documents and Legal Memoranda

R27.1	Capitalizing Court
Capitalize “Court” in each of the following situations:

• Referring to the U.S. Supreme Court
• Referring to or addressing the court receiving the document you are submitting
• Naming the court in full

Examples:
The Court held that the Official Code of Georgia Annotated is a government edict that cannot be copyrighted by the State of Georgia.
The U.S. Court of Federal Claims held jurisdiction.
The Aalmuhammed court explained that the word author “is traditionally used to mean the originator or the person who causes something to come into being.”
This Court is being asked to expand the definition of “author” far beyond the statutory text.

R27.2 Party Designations in a Litigation
Capitalize “Plaintiff,” “Defendant,” “Appellant” and “Appellee,” unless you are referring to parties from other litigation.
Example (in the case involving this plaintiff as a party):
The Plaintiff does not have a cognizable copyright interest in her acting performance.
Example (referring to a different litigation):
In Bobbs-Merrill, the plaintiff-copyright owner sold its book with a printed notice announcing that any retailer who sold the book for less than one dollar was liable for copyright


88

D. COURT & LITIGATION DOCUMENTS

infringement.

R27.3 Titles of Court Documents
In litigation filings, use the capitalized and unabbreviated title of any litigation document in that case, when referring to it in full in a textual sentence. A litigation document may also be referred to in a citation sentence in a full or short form, in which case it should be capitalized but abbreviated.
Example:
The Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration should be denied. Pl.’s Mot. Recons. at 4.

R27.4 Types of Documents Not Capitalized
Do not capitalize the name for a type of court document, such as an injunction, petition, etc.





































89

The Indigo Book


E. BOOKS & NON-PERIODICALS
R28 Full Citation for Books & Non-Periodicals R28.1 General
A full citation to a book or other non-periodical is made up of the following elements:

• Volume number (if the book is in a set of more than one volume)
• Author name or names
• Title of the Publication
• Parenthetically, edition and editor information, if applicable; and year

Examples:
1 Melville B. Nimmer & David Nimmer, Nimmer on Copyright § 1.01[B][1][a] at 1–14–15 (2019).
Matthew Reidsma, Masked by Trust: Bias in Library Discovery (2019).
Lawyers in Practice: Ethical Decision Making in Context (Leslie C. Levin & Lynn Mather eds., 2012).
Joseph Williams & Joseph Bizup, Style: Ten Lessons in Clarity and Grace (12th ed. 2016).

R28.2 Author Name or Names
Use standard roman type (not italicized) for the author name or names.
R28.2.1	Exact names

In general, list the names of the authors as listed on the publication, such as by including listed first names and middle initials in addition to surnames. Use titles that follow an author’s name (Sr.) but not titles that precede them (Hon.)
R28.2.2  Multiple authors

For two authors, list them in the same order as on the publication separated by “&.” For more than two authors, you may list all of the authors with “&” before the last. Or you may use “et al.” after the first-named author.





90

E. BOOKS & NON-PERIODICALS


R28.2.3	Title of the publication

Place the publication title in italics.
R28.2.4	Pincite

Include the exact page number being cited immediately after the name of the publication. Do not use “at” before the pincite in a full citation. When citing a work organized using sections or paragraphs, use those instead, adding a page number only if helpful.
Example:

Marc A. Franklin et al., Mass Media Law Cases and Materials 472 (8th ed. 2011).

R28.2.5	Edition, editor or translator, and year of publication

The full citation to a book publication has up to four elements in the required parenthetical, in the following order:

• Editor (designated as “ed.”)
• Translator (designated as “trans.” and also including the name of the publisher of the translated edition)
• Edition number
• Year

If listing an editor or a translator, then follow the name with the designation “ed.,” or “trans.,”



91

The Indigo Book

respectively. Do not place a comma before the designation of ed. or trans., but do include a comma after that designation and before the year of publication.
Examples:
Gabriel García Márquez, One Hundred Years of Solitude (Gregory Rabassa trans., Harper & Row 2003) (1967).
Roger Angell, This Old Man, in The Best American Essays 2015 (Ariel Levy & Robert Atwan eds., 2015).
R29 Short Form Citation for Books & Non-Periodicals R29.1 Id.
Id. may be used for references to books or non-periodical material cited in the immediately preceding citation, assuming that citation contains only one source. Update the page number you’re referring to within that source, as needed, by using “Id. at <x>.”
Do not use id. for internal cross references, or for citing back to a body of collected works when actually citing a single work from that body.

R29.2 Supra
Use “supra” when you’ve used the full citation before, but it’s not the immediately preceding citation. Use a shortened title if you cite to multiple sources from the same author. Where a source has more than two authors, short citation forms using supra may use the first-named author and “et al.” to refer to other named authors, regardless of whether the first full citation has done so. You may retain all the authors if desired for giving credit.
The short form supra can be used in references to an earlier-cited work where “id.” does not apply. Citations built using supra should include:

• the author’s last name
• an unitalicized comma followed by italicized supra and followed by another unitalicized comma
• the word “at” and the specific page being pincited.









92

E. BOOKS & NON-PERIODICALS

Examples:
















































93

The Indigo Book


F. JOURNALS, MAGAZINES, & NEWSPAPER ARTICLES
R30	Full Citation for Journals, Magazines & Newspaper Articles R30.1	Journal Citations
R30.1.1	Consecutively paginated journals (such as law reviews)

Citations to consecutively paginated journals (that is, journals in which page numbering is continued from the last issue) take the following form:
<Author’s Name(s)>, <Italicized Title of the Article>, <volume number, if applicable> <Name of Publication, abbreviated> <page number of first page of article cited>, <pincite, if citing to specific point> <(year published)>.
Follow Rule R30.2 below for author name rules and Rule R30.3 for abbreviating the name of the publication.
Example:
Liz Brown, Bridging the Gap: Improving Intellectual Property Protection for the Look and Feel of Websites, 3 N.Y.U. J. Intell. Prop. & Ent. L. 310, 351 (2014).
R30.1.2	Journals and magazines with standard pagination

Citations to journals and magazines with standard pagination (that is, where pagination re- starts for every issue) take the following form:
<Author’s Name(s)>, <Italicized Title of the Article>, <Name of Publication, abbreviated>,
<full date of publication>, at <page number of first page of article cited>.
Example:
Jack Dickey, The Power of Taylor Swift, Time, Nov. 24, 2014, at 13.
R30.1.3	Pincites with standard pagination

A pincite to a specific page may be added after the page number of the article’s first page, in the following form: , <pincite>.
Example:
Jack Dickey, The Power of Taylor Swift, Time, Nov. 24, 2014, at 13, 17.






94

F. JOURNALS, MAGAZINES, & NEWSPAPER ARTICLES

R30.1.3	Student-written material in law journals

Citations to material written by students in law journals such as comments and notes take the following form:
<Author’s Name(s), if signed with more than initials>, <Designation of Piece>, <Italicized Title of the Article>, <volume number, if applicable> <Name of Publication, abbreviated> <page number of first page of article cited>, <pincite, if citing to specific point> <(year published)>.
Examples:
Amanda Levendowski, Note, Using Copyright to Combat Revenge Porn, 3 N.Y.U. J. Intell. Prop. & Ent. L. 422 (2014).
Victoria Nemiah, Note, License and Registration, Please: Using Copyright “Conditions” To Protect Free/Open Source Software, 3 N.Y.U. J. Intell. Prop. & Ent. L. 358, 361 (2014).
Comment, Law and Lawns: Mandatory Water Restrictions and Substantive Due Process, 7 Calif. L. Rev. 138 (1972).



R30.2 Authors
R30.2.1	Name as listed

Show the author’s name beginning with first name, initials if indicated on the publication, and last name followed by any name suffixes (Jr., III) indicated on the publication title.
R30.2.2	Two authors

For two authors, indicate their names in the order shown on the publication, separated by an ampersand. Do not insert a comma before the ampersand.
R30.2.3	Multiple authors

For more than two authors, all authors may be listed with an ampersand before the last name; or all but the first may be omitted and replaced by “et al.” Indicate all authors when relevant


95

The Indigo Book

the point being made, or when recognition of all authors is desirable.
R30.2.4	No listed author

When no author is listed at the beginning or end of the publication source, skip the author field and begin the citation with the publication’s title.

R30.3 Journal Titles
R30.3.1	Abbreviated titles

Use the abbreviations for common institutional names as listed in Table T15 if the name is listed. If the institutional name is not listed in Table T15, use abbreviations as listed in Table T11 and Table T12. If the periodical title has an abbreviation in it, use the abbreviation. If the word is not found in any of these tables, do not abbreviate the word in the abbreviated title.
R30.2.2	Prepositions, articles, commas, and colons

For journals not listed in the tables, streamline the journal title with these grammar mechanics. Do not use the words “a,” “at,” “in,” “of,” and “the” in the abbreviated title. Do, however, use the word “on.” If the title consists of “a,” “at,” “in,” “of,” or “the” followed by a single word, do not abbreviate the remaining word. Omit all commas in abbreviated titles, but retain other punctuation. If a periodical title has a colon followed by words, omit all that from the abbreviated title.
Use discretion to format a journal title differently when the journal identifies its own abbreviated title differently, particularly for legal journals (as opposed to those from other disciplines using other citation conventions).
Examples:
“Sociological Journal of Law” becomes “Socio. J. Law”
“Law Journal on the Litigation World” becomes “L.J. on Litig. World” “Journal at Legal Crossroads” becomes “J. Legal Crossroads” R30.2.3	Online supplements
To cite an online supplement to a print publication, use the proper abbreviation for the print publication, followed by the name of the online supplement.
R30.2.4	Evolving journal titles and series designation

If a periodical has been renumbered into a new series, indicate that by prefacing the series number with “(n.s.)”. Use the title of the periodical on the issue you are citing, even if the name


96

F. JOURNALS, MAGAZINES, & NEWSPAPER ARTICLES

of the periodical has changed.

R30.4 Newspaper Articles
Citations to newspaper articles traditionally required the print-based citation, but now may use either the print-based citation or the online citation with exact date and URL consistent with Rule R32.
R30.4.1	Print-based citation to newspaper article

Citations to newspaper articles take the following form: <Author’s Name(s), if signed>,
<Italicized Title of the Article>, <Name of Publication, abbreviated>, <full date of publication>, at <number of first page of article>. Add a designation after the author’s name such as “editorial,” where appropriate.
Examples:
Charlie Savage, U.N. Commission Presses U.S. on Torture, N.Y. Times, Nov. 14, 2014, at A6. Vikas Bajaj, Editorial, Rules for the Marijuana Market, N.Y. Times, Aug. 5, 2014, at A20.
R30.4.2	Citation to newspaper article online Examples:
Charlie Savage, U.N. Commission Presses U.S. on Torture, N.Y. Times (Nov. 14, 2014),
https://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/14/world/europe/un-commission-presses-us-on- torture.html.
Vikas Bajaj, Editorial Rules for the Marijuana Market, N.Y. Times (Aug. 5, 2014), https://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/05/opinion/high-time-rules-for-the-marijuana- market.html.

R31 Short Form Citation for Journals, Magazines & Newspaper Articles

R31.1	Id.
Use “id.” when referring to the source cited in the immediately preceding citation. Id. can be used to refer to the same source as in a preceding citation that is itself also id., but do not repeat id. more than four times sequentially. After the fourth id., add more information by repeating the full citation or providing a short citation with supra.
Id. may be used by itself to indicate the same page of the same source, or with “at” to indicate a


97

The Indigo Book

different page of that source.

R31.2	Supra
Use “supra” when you’ve used the full citation before, but it’s not right next to the sentence you will provide the citation for now. Use a shortened title if you cite to multiple sources from the same author. Where a source has more than two authors, short citation forms using supra may use the first-named author and “et al.” to refer to other named authors, regardless of whether the first full citation has done so. You may retain all the authors if desired for giving credit.
Example (in-text citation):
Robbins, Painting with Print, supra, at 112.
Example (footnote):
Baumeister et al., Bad Is Stronger than Good, supra note 5, at 325.







































98

G. INTERNET SOURCES


G. INTERNET SOURCES
R32	General Principles for Internet Sources R32.1 Authenticated, Official, and Exact Copies
When an authenticated, official, or exact copy of a document is available online, cite as if to the equivalent print source (i.e., URL information should not be included).

• Authenticated copy: source that uses some authenticating tool, such as a digital signature. This is generally the preferred version.
• Official copy: version of document designated “official” by a federal, state, or local government.
• Exact copy: unaltered online reproduction of the entirety of a printed source, including pagination.

R32.2 Print Sources Also Available on the Internet
For sources that are available in a non-internet source, append the URL to the end of the citation if doing so would make accessing the source significantly easier.
Example:
Daniel E. Ho & Frederick Schauer, Testing the Marketplace of Ideas, 90 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 1160, 1175 (2015), http://www.nyulawreview.org/sites/default/files/pdf/
NYULawReview-90-4-Ho_Schauer.pdf.

R32.3 Print Sources Reproduced on the Internet
For Internet sources that have the characteristics of a print source, cite as if you were citing the print source, and append the URL to the end of the citation. Internet sources have the characteristics of a print source when the following conditions are met: the source has all the information needed to cite it according to another rule, and the source has a fixed, permanent pagination (such as a PDF).

R32.4 Webpages and Internet Sources
For citations directly to webpages and other Internet sources that do not exist in any other printed format, follow the formula in Rule R33 below.


99

The Indigo Book


INDIGO INKLING
Even in an online world, the format of the printed page reigns supreme in legal citation. Thus, when a document is available in multiple formats, choose the citation format that best preserves the document as it would display if printed. For example, PDF is preferred over HTML. The benefit of these citations is allowing citations to specific page numbers (for pincites) regardless of whether it is being viewed digitally or in print.
Note that many of the Internet citation rules are little more than common sense (that’s a compliment, not a dig). For example: include the URL that most directly links your reader to the authority, as you don’t want to send readers on a wild goose chase through the recesses of the Internet in search of a source. For the sake of completeness, we include these rules below, even though most people would probably intuit them.
One internet citation rule is not common sense, however. Traditional legal citation does not underline the URL to indicate a hyperlink. (Indeed, if you are using italics for case names, titles, and such, nothing will be underlined anywhere in the document.) As you create a citation to an internet source, your word processor may helpfully add an underlined hyperlink with URL text turned a different color. For citation per the Uniform System of Citation, believe it or not, you should remove that formatting change. Depending on the situation, you might choose to leave the non-compliant (yet helpful) obvious hyperlink. You could remove the hyperlink altogether. Or you could change the formatting so the hyperlink works but is rendered in plain font, consistent with traditional legal citation.


R33 Basic Formula for Internet Sources
Citations to Internet sources follow this form: <Author Name>, <Title of Website Page>,
<Main Website Title>, <pincite> <(Date source posted, with exact time of posting if available)>, <URL>.

R33.1 Author Name(s)
R33.1.1	Personal author

When available, use the name or names of the individual, personal authors of the source.
Example:
Kate Klonick, Facebook v. Sullivan, Knight First Amend. Inst. (Oct. 1, 2018), https:// knightcolumbia.org/content/facebook-v-sullivan.




100

G. INTERNET SOURCES

R33.1.2 Institutional authors
When the name of the individual, personal author is unavailable, use the name of the institution associated with the source if one is clearly apparent. Institutional authors should be omitted if the website’s title makes the domain’s owner clear. Institutional authors should be abbreviated (see Table T12 and Table T11 for abbreviations). Excessively long institutional- author names may be truncated, such as by omitting prepositional phrases that are not needed for clear identification.
Examples:
The Pew Charitable Trusts, How Debt Collectors Are Transforming State Courts, Pew (May 6, 2020), https://www.pewtrusts.org/-/media/assets/2020/06/debt-collectors-to- consumers.pdf
Economic Liberty, Inst. for Just., https://ij.org/issues/economic-liberty/ (last visited July 6, 2021).
Community Standards Enforcement Report, Facebook (Nov. 2019), https://transparency.facebook.com /community-standards-enforcement
R33.1.3	Forum authors

For web posts and comments, use the actual name of the post author, or the username of the post author if the actual name is not available. For comments, the author of the comment should be included if available, but the author of the original post need not be cited.
R33.1.4	Unavailable author name

If the name of the author is unavailable in each of the above forms, it may be omitted from the basic formula.

R33.2 Content Title
R33.2.1	Specific webpage title

Include the particular cited webpage as the source title (roughly equivalent to citing the title of an article). This title should be based on either the title bar or the heading of that page as viewed in the browser.
Examples:
Mike Masnick, Left Shark Bites Back: 3D Printer Sculptor Hires Lawyer to Respond to Katy Perry’s Bogus Takedown, TechDirt (Feb. 9, 2015, 12:27 PM), https://www.techdirt.com/ articles/20150209/11373729960/left-shark-bites-back-3d-printer-sculptor-hires-lawyer-to-


101

The Indigo Book

respond-to-katy-perrys-bogus-takedown.shtml.

Priority Legis.—U.S. House and Senate, Nat’l Cannabis Indus. Ass’n, https://thecannabisindustry.org/government-affairs/priority-legislation-us-senate/ (last visited July 6, 2021).

R33.2.2	Shortened content title

The content title should be informative but not unduly long, if possible without compromising clarity and precision.
R33.2.3	Comments and other related pages

Include the title of certain pages linked from main website when relevant, including postings, comments, and titles of subheadings (in italics). Where relevant, as in comments, subheadings should indicate their relationship to the page to which they are responsive.
Example:
Nasch, Re: Costumes, IP, and Ownership Rights, Comment to Left Shark Bites Back, TechDirt (Feb. 14, 2015, 9:55 AM), https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20150209/11373729960/left- shark-bites-back-3d-printer-sculptor-hires-lawyer-to-respond-to-katy-perrys-bogus- takedown.shtml.
R33.3 Main Website Title R33.3.1 Overall title
Provide the internet source’s overall website title (roughly equivalent to the publication title in a periodical citation). Use the name of the home page; the title given in the blog’s header; or, in the unlikely event no name is given, the website’s top-level domain name (as distinct from the specific URL provided later in the citation).

R33.3.2	Abbreviation

Title should be abbreviated per Table T11, Table T12, and Table T15.
Example:
Priority Legis.—U.S. House and Senate, Nat’l Cannabis Indus. Ass’n, https://thecannabisindustry.org/government-affairs/priority-legislation-us-senate/ (last visited July 6, 2021).



102

G. INTERNET SOURCES

R33.4 Pincite
R33.4.1	Paginated electronic publication, or publication of print version

Include when an electronic document preserves the pagination of a printed version. Cite to pages as they would appear on the document if printed.
Example:
James Huguenin-Love, Song on Wire: A Technical Analysis of ReDigi and the Pre-Owned Digital Media Marketplace, 4 N.Y.U. J. Intell. Prop. & Ent. L. 1, 4 (2014), http://jipel.law.nyu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/JIPEL-Winter-2014-Edition.pdf.

R33.5 Date & Time
Include the date of the webpage or publication, as published on the website. The date may be found at the top, similar to a byline or at the bottom similar to a sign-off. Include the exact time of publication if given.
Examples:
Laura Moy, Public Knowledge & Consumers Petition Copyright Office for Right to Unlock Access to Their Own Stuff, Public Knowledge Blogs (Nov. 3, 2014), https://www.publicknowledge.org/news-blog/blogs/public-knowledge-consumers-petition- copyright-office-for-right-to-unlock-ac.
Chris Cillizza, Winners and Losers of the 2014 Midterm Elections, Wash. Post Blogs (Nov. 5, 2014, 10:25 AM), http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/wp/2014/11/04/winners- and-losers-of-the-2014-election-early-edition/.
R33.5.1  Time not needed

Omit time if the source is not updated throughout the day or if there is no time listed.
R33.5.2  Last visited

If no date is provided, add a parenthetical indicating the “last modified” or “last updated” date for the URL, or, if none of the above are provided, use the “last visited” date. Any date cited in one of these three formats should be placed after the URL in the citation.
Example:
ESPN, http://www.espn.go.com/ (last visited July 5, 2021).






103

The Indigo Book

R33.6 URL
R33.6.1	Entire URL preferred

Cite in its entirety unless the URL is especially long or unwieldy (a very high standard, given how long most URLs are).
R33.6.2

If the URL is too long and unwieldy, cite just to the root URL and include a parenthetical directing the user to the specific material cited.
Example:
Google Books Ngram Viewer, Google, https://books.google.com/ngrams (select corpus “English Fiction”; then search for “Arrakis”) (last visited Apr. 17, 2012).
R33.6.3	Archived URL

When helpful (such as to preserve a site that may change or to preserve a site for future readers), include URL to an archived version of the webpage in brackets.
Example:
Kevin Underhill, Gollum Experts to Testify, Says Court, Lowering the Bar (Dec. 4, 2015), http://www.loweringthebar.net/2015/12/gollum-experts.html [https://web.archive.org/web/ 20151208124302/http://www.loweringthebar.net/2015/12/gollum-experts.html].
R33.6.4	Multiple URLs

When a website is served by multiple URLs, use the primary one. When a source is published on multiple URLs (such as a law-firm website and a content aggregator), use the most authoritative and original website.

R33.7 Social media
Include the author’s name, handle or other identifying information parenthetically, the platform, parenthetical with the exact date and time posted, followed by the URL of the post.
Example:
American Bar Association (@ABAesq), Twitter (July 6, 2021, 8:11 PM), https://twitter.com/ ABAesq/status/1412564952846581761?s=20.







104

G. INTERNET SOURCES

R34	Short Form Citations for Internet Sources
After a full citation to an internet source, an appropriate short form may be used. Id. can be used to refer to an internet source, consistent with Rule R6. The short form supra can be used to shorten the full citation where id. is not appropriate.
A bracketed parenthetical also may also be used to provide a short-form definition, if needed to avoid ambiguity or to preserve clarity. When citing directly to Internet sources, the “hereinafter” bracketed parenthetical should come right after the URL or, if applicable, the “last visited” parenthetical.
Example (full citation):
Chris Cillizza, Winners and Losers of the 2014 Midterm Elections, Wash. Post Blogs (Nov. 5, 2014, 10:25 AM), http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/wp/2014/11/04/winners- and-losers-of-the-2014-election-early-edition/.
Example (short form):
Cillizza, supra.
Example (full citation):
Superfan Suits, http://www.superfansuits.com/ (last visited Feb. 21, 2015).
Example (short form):
Superfan Suits, supra.
Example (full citation):
Full Citation: Ohio’s Official Online Publication of State Laws and Regulations, https://codes.ohi (last visited July 6, 2021) [hereinafter, “Ohio Official Online State Laws”].
Example (short form):
Ohio Official Online State Laws, supra.

















105

The Indigo Book


H. TABLES

T1 Federal Materials

T1.1	Federal Judicial Materials
Materials	Date	Citation

United States Supreme Court (U.S.): Cite to U.S., if possible. If not, cite to S. Ct. If that’s not possible, cite to L. Ed. If you can cite to none of the above, cite to U.S.L.W.
United States Reports

91 U.S. to date	1875–date U.S.

Wallace	1863–1874 e.g., 68 U.S. (1 Wall.)

Black	1861–1862 e.g., 66 U.S. (1 Black)

Howard	1843–1860e.g., 42 U.S. (1 How.)

Peters	1828–1842 e.g., 26 U.S. (1 Pet.)

Wheaton	1816–1827 e.g., 14 U.S. (1 Wheat.)

Cranch	1801–1815 e.g., 5 U.S. (1 Cranch)

Dallas	1790–1800e.g., 1 U.S. (1 Dall.) Supreme Court Reporter	1882–date S. Ct.

United States Supreme Court Reports, Lawyers’ Edition

1790–date L. Ed., L. Ed. 2d

United States Law Week

1933–date

U.S.L.W.



United States Reports Supreme Court Reporter
United States Supreme Court Reports, Lawyers’ Edition

1893–date U.S. 1893–date S. Ct.
1790–date L. Ed., L. Ed. 2d

United States Law Week

1933–date

U.S.L.W.


Circuit Justices (e.g., Gorsuch, J., in chambers): Cite to U.S. if possible; otherwise, cite to S. Ct., L. Ed., or U.S.L.W. in that order of preference.



106

H. TABLES


Materials	Date	Citation

Some cases presided over by Circuit Justices are found in other reporters. After the citation, indicate the Circuit Justice and applicable circuit parenthetically as in this example: (Jackson, Circuit Justice, 2d Cir. 1950).
United States Courts of Appeals (1st Cir., 2d Cir., 3d Cir., 4th Cir., 5th Cir., 6th Cir., 7th Cir., 8th Cir., 9th Cir., 10th Cir., 11th Cir., and D.C. Cir.): Cite to F., F.2d, F.3d, or F.4th
Federal Reporter	1891–date F., F.2d, F.3d, F.4th

Federal Appendix	2001–date F. App’x

Circuit Courts (e.g., C.C.S.D.N.Y., C.C.D. Cal.) (abolished 1912): Cite to F. or F. Cas. Federal Reporter	1880–1912 F.
Federal Cases	1789–1880 F. Cas.

Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals (Temp. Emer. Ct. App.) (1971–1993), Emergency Court of Appeals (Emer. Ct. App.) (created 1942, abolished 1961), and Commerce Court (Comm. Ct.) (created 1910, abolished 1913): Cite to F. or F.2d.
Federal Reporter	1910–1993 F., F.2d

United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Fed. Cir.) (created 1982), successor to the United States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals (C.C.P.A.) (previously the Court of Customs Appeals (Ct. Cust. App.)) and the appellate jurisdiction of the Court of Claims (Ct. Cl.): Cite to F., F.2d, F.3d, or F.4th; else, cite to the official reporter.
Federal Reporter	1910–date F., F.2d, F.3d, F.4th

Court of Claims Reports	1956–1982 Ct. Cl.


Court of Customs and Patent Appeals Reports

1929–1982 C.C.P.A.

Court of Customs Appeals Reports 1910–1929 Ct. Cust.

United States Court of Federal Claims (Fed. Cl.) (created 1992), formerly United States Claims Court (Cl. Ct.) (created 1982), and successor to the original jurisdiction of the Court of Claims (Ct. Cl.): Cite to one of the following reporters:
Federal Claims Reporter	1992–date Fed. Cl. United States Claims Court	1983–1992 Cl. Ct.


107

The Indigo Book


Materials	Date	Citation

Reporter

Federal Reporter	1930–1932 F.2d 1960–1982 F.2d
Federal Supplement	1932–1960 F. Supp.

Court of Claims Reports	1863–1982 Ct. Cl.

United States Court of International Trade (Ct. Int’l Trade) (created 1980), formerly United States Customs Court (Cust. Ct.) (created 1926): Cite to the official reporters, if possible; if not, in the following order, cite to F. Supp., F. Supp. 2d, or F. Supp. 3d to Cust. B. & Dec. (an official publication), or to I.T.R.D. (BL).

Court of International Trade Reports
Customs Court Reports Federal Supplement

1980–date Ct. Int’l Trade


1938–1980Cust. Ct.

1980–date F. Supp., F. Supp. 2d, F. Supp. 3d

Customs Bulletin and Decisions

1967–date

Cust. B. & Dec.



International Trade Reporter Decisions

1980–date I.T.R.D. (BL)

District Courts (e.g., D. Mass., S.D.N.Y.): Cite F. Supp., F. Supp. 2d, F. Supp. 3d, F.R.D., or B.R.
If the case is not published in the priority reporters above, cite to Fed. R. Serv., Fed. R. Serv. 2d, or Fed. R. Serv. 3d. For cases before 1932, cite to F., F.2d, or F. Cas.
Use Table T9 for court abbreviations and Table T12 for geographical abbreviations to construct the proper abbreviation for the District Court, such as C.D. Cal. and D.N.M.
Federal Supplement	1932–date F. Supp., F. Supp. 2d, F. Supp. 3d Federal Rules Decisions	1938–date F.R.D.
West’s Bankruptcy Reporter	1979–date B.R.

Federal Rules Service	1938–date Fed. R. Serv. (Callaghan), Fed. R. Serv. 2d
(Callaghan), Fed. R. Serv. 3d (West)

Federal Reporter	1880–1932 F., F.2d



108

H. TABLES


Materials	Date	Citation

Federal Cases	1789–1880 F. Cas.

Citations to F. Cas. should give the case number parenthetically.

Example: Davey v. The Mary Frost, 7 F. Cas. 11 (E.D. Tx. 1876) (No. 3591).

Bankruptcy Courts and Bankruptcy Appellate Panels (e.g., Bankr. N.D. Cal.; B.A.P. 1st Cir.), cite to B.R.; else, cite to a looseleaf service.
Bankruptcy Reporter	1979–date B.R.

Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (J.P.M.L.) (created 1968) and Special Court, Regional Rail Reorganization Act (Reg’l Rail Reorg. Ct.) (created 1973): Cite to F. Supp., F. Supp. 2d., or F. Supp. 3d.
Federal Supplement	1968–date F. Supp., F. Supp. 2d, F. Supp. 3d

Tax Court (T.C.) (created 1942), previously Board of Tax Appeals (B.T.A.), cite to T.C. or B.T.A.; else, cite to T.C.M. (CCH), T.C.M. (P-H), T.C.M. (RIA), or B.T.A.M. (P-H).
United States Tax Court Reports	1942–date T.C.


Reports of the United States Board of Tax Appeals
Tax Court Memorandum Decisions

1924–1942 B.T.A.


1942–date T.C.M. (CCH)


1942–1991 T.C.M. (P-H)


1991–date T.C.M. (RIA)


Board of Tax Appeals Memorandum Decisions

1928–1942 B.T.A.M. (P-H)

United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims (Vet. App.), previously United States Court of Veterans Appeals (Vet. App.) (created 1988), cite to Vet. App.
West’s Veterans Appeals Reporter 1990–date Vet. App.

United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces (C.A.A.F.), previously United States Court of Military Appeals (C.M.A.): Cite to C.M.A.
Decisions of the United States	1951–1975 C.M.A.




109

The Indigo Book



T1.2 Federal Statutory Materials


T2	Federal Administrative and Executive Materials



110

H. TABLES


Administrative Materials

services> For citations to the Board of Contract Appeals Decisions (BCA), published by Commerce Clearing House, the publisher is not indicated and the volume number should be used to indicate the year of the decision.
Example: RMTC Sys., Inc., ASBCA No. 43466, 93-1 BCA ¶ 25,508.

Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA)

Decisions: Cite the same way as a citation for the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals, but include the opposing agency in the case name.
Example: G2G, LLC v. Dept. of Commerce, CBCA 4845-R, 15-1 BCA ¶ 36,163.

Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals (ASBCA)

Decisions: Cite decisions as: <case name>, ASBCA No. <decision number>, <citation to services> For citations to the Board of Contract Appeals Decisions (BCA), published by Commerce Clearing House, the publisher is not indicated and the volume number should be used to indicate the year of the decision.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)

Decisions: Cite as <case name>, CFTC No. <docket number>, <secondary source if available> (<date>).
Example: Windjammer Capital LLC v. Glob. Futures Exch. & Trading Co., Inc., CFTC No. 14-R1, 2015 WL 9434227 (Dec. 22, 2015).
Interpretive Letters, No-Action Letters, and Exemptive Letters: Cite a service or an electronic database. Include the full name of the correspondent if available, the CFTC docket number, and the full date on which the letter became publicly available.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)

Decisions: Cite as <case name>, CFPB No. <decision number>, <secondary source if available> (<date>).
Example: American Express Travel Related Servs., Inc., CFPB No. 2013-CFPB-0013 (Dec. 24, 2013).
Department of Agriculture (USDA)

Decisions: Cite to the Agriculture Decisions (Agric. Dec).
Example: Arizona Livestock Auction, Inc., 55 Agric Dec. 1121 (U.S.D.A. 1996).



111

The Indigo Book


Administrative Materials

Directives: Cite as: <issuing agency abbreviated according to table below> <directive number>, <directive title> (U.S.D.A. <year>).
Agricultural Marketing Service	AMS

Agricultural Research Service	ARS 218

Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service	APHIS

Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion	CNPP Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service CSREES Economic Research Service	ERS
Farm Service Agency	FSA

Food and Nutrition Service	FNS

Food Safety and Inspection Service	FSIS

Foreign Agricultural Service	FAS

Forest Service	FS

Grain Inspection, Packers, and Stockyards Administration	GIPSA National Agricultural Library	NAL
National Agricultural Statistics Service	NASS

National Institute of Food and Agriculture	NIFA

National Resources Conservation Service	NRCS

Risk Management Agency	RMA

Rural Development	RD

Rural Housing Service	RHS

Rural Utilities Service	RUS

Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Decisions in Consistency Appeals Under the Coastal Zone Management Act:
Citation format for decisions of the Secretary of Commerce under the Coastal Zone




112

H. TABLES


Administrative Materials

Management Act: Decision and Findings in the Consistency Appeal of <party name>, from an objection by <state or relevant state agency’s name> (Sec’y of Commerce <date>). If these decisions are not published in an official reporter; indicate the source where the decision is located.
Other NOAA Decisions: For decisions of administrative law judges in civil administrative law cases, cite to the Ocean Resources and Wildlife Reporter (O.R.W.); else cite to an appropriate secondary source.
Decisions of the Administrator for Appeals (NOAA App.) should so specify.
Department of Commerce, Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) Decisions: For decisions of the Commissioner of Patents, cite to Decisions of the
Commissioner of Patents (Dec. Comm’r Pat.) following Rule 19 but including all procedural phrases in party names.
For decisions of the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (P.T.A.B.), cite as <case name>, No.
<docket number>, <citation to secondary source> (P.T.A.B. <year>).
Use the U.S.P.Q.2d as the preferred secondary source in these citations if available, rather than a commercial database.
For decisions of the Patent Trial and Appeal Board that are not published but available on a website or otherwise, cite as Ex parte <Name>, decision of the Patent Trial and Appeal Board, Patent No. <case xxx,xxx,xxx>, paper No. <xxx>, <xxx> pages. See Manual of Patent Examining Procedure 707.06.
For decisions of the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board (T.T.A.B.), cite as: <case name>,
<citation to secondary source> (T.T.A.B. <year>).
Use the U.S.P.Q.2d as the preferred secondary source in these citations if available, rather than a commercial database.
Pre-Sept. 16, 2012: For decisions by the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences (B.P.A.I.), cite as: <party name>, No. <docket number>, <citation to secondary source if available> (B.P.A.I. <date>).
Patents:

Cite the patent number and the date the patent was filed.
Example: U.S. Patent No. 8,112,504 B2 (filed Mar. 4, 2009)



113

The Indigo Book


Administrative Materials

The patent name and/or issuing date may be included if relevant.
System for disseminating media content representing episodes in a serialized sequence, U.S. Patent No. 8,112,504 B2 (filed Mar. 4, 2009) (issued Feb. 7, 2012)
For citations to a specific field of the title page, include the field code in brackets.
Example: U.S. Patent No. 8,112,504 B2, at [75] (filed Mar. 4, 2009)

For citations to a specific portion of patent text, a patent figure, or an item within a figure.
Example: U.S. Patent No. 8,112,504 B2, fig. 1, item 141 (filed Mar. 4, 2009)

Short form patent citations include an apostrophe followed by the last three digits of the patent number.
Example: ’504 Patent.

Trademarks:

For registered trademarks, cite as <TRADEMARK NAME>, Registration No. <registration number>.
Example: THE BLUEBOOK A UNIFORM SYSTEM OF CITATION, Registration No. 3,886,986.
For trademarks that have been filed, but not approved, cite as U.S. Trademark Application Serial No. <Serial Number> (filed <date>).
Example: U.S. Trademark Application Serial No. 86,680,743 (filed Jul. 1, 2015). Official Gazette of the United States Patent Office (1872–1971) Off. Gaz. Pat. Office

Official Gazette of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (1975–2002)
Trademark Manual of Examining Procedure Manual of Patent Examining Procedure

Department of Education

Off. Gaz. Pat. & Trademark Office
TMEP (Oct. 2018)

MPEP (9th ed., Rev. 10.2019,
June 2020)


Reports: Cite Institution of Education Sciences reports as Institution of Education Sciences,
<title> <page> (<date>).
Example: Institute of Education Sciences, National Board for Education Sciences Annual



114

H. TABLES


Administrative Materials

Report 12 (2014).

Reports: Cite federal student aid proceedings as <case name>, U.S. Dep’t of Educ., No.
<docket number> (<date>).
Example: Lincoln Univ., U.S. Dep’t of Educ., No. 13-68-SF (Mar. 16, 2015).

Department of Homeland Security, Bureau of Customs and Border Protection

The two official reporters of the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection and its predecessors are the Administrative Decisions Under Immigration and Nationality Laws (I. & N. Dec.) and the Customs Bulletin and Decisions (Cust. B. & Dec).
Department of Justice

Advisory Opinions: For published, formal advisory opinions, cite in the same manner as adjudications. Cite opinions from the Attorney General as Opinions of the Attorneys General (Op. Att’y Gen.).
Cite opinions from the Office of Legal Counsel as Opinions of the Office of Legal Counsel of the Department of Justice (Op. O.L.C.).
Examples:
Authority of Sec’y of Treasury to Compromise Final Judgments, 36 U.S. Op. Att’y Gen. 40 (1929)
Diversion of Water from Niagara River, 30 Op. Att’y Gen. 217 (1913).
U.S. Assistance to Countries that Shoot Down Civil Aircraft Involved in Drug Trafficking, 18 Op. O.L.C. 148, 165 (1994).
Cite precedent decisions of the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) to Administrative Decisions Under Immigration and Nationality Laws (I. & N. Dec.) as published by the Department of Justice Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR).
Department of Labor

Decisions in Petition for Modification Cases Under Section 101(c) of the Mine Act, 30 U.S.C. § 811(c): Cite as <description of decision>, <case name>, Docket No. <docket number> (Dep’t of Labor <date>).
Note that these decisions have not been reported in any official reporter or service.

Decisions in Enforcement Actions Brought by the Office of Federal Contract



115

The Indigo Book


Administrative Materials

Compliance Programs: Cite as <case name>, <docket number>, <description of decision> (Dep’t of Labor <date>).
Note that these decisions have not been reported in any official reporter or service.
Example: OFCCP v. Bank of Am., 97-OFC-16, Secretary's Decision and Order of Remand (Dep't of Labor Mar. 31, 2003).
Decisions by the Benefits Review Board: Cite to a service.
Example: Jones v. I.T.O. Corp. of Baltimore, 9 Ben. Rev. Bd. Serv. (MB) 583, 585 (1979).

Opinions: Cite as <Name of agency, Name of subagency if applicable>, <Title of Letter>,
<Date>,<Further publication information or URL>.
Example: U.S. Dep’t of Labor, Wage and Hour Div., Opinion Letter FLSA2021-2 (Jan. 8, 2021), https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/WHD/opinion-letters/FLSA/ 2021_01_08_02_FLSA.pdf.
Department of the Interior

Cite agency decisions to Interior Decisions (Interior Dec.) or Interior and General Land Office Cases Relating to Public Lands (Pub. Lands Dec.). Where a board within the agency issues the opinion, note the board in the same parenthetical as the date, using these abbreviations:
Interior Board of Land Appeals	IBLA

Interior Board of Indian Appeals	DBIA

Interior Board of Contract Appeals	IBCA

Example: Shell Offshore, Inc., 94 Interior Dec. 69 (IBLA 1987).

Department of State

Reports: For reports of the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, cite as: U.S. Dep’t of State, Bureau of Democracy, H.R. and Lab., <title> <page> (<date>).
Example: U.S. Dep’t of State, Bureau of Democracy, H.R. and Lab., International Religious Freedom Report 14 (2014).
Department of the Treasury

Regulations: For Department of Treasury regulations, cite as <Treas. Reg.>, despite the fact that they are published under Title 26 of the C.F.R.




116

H. TABLES


Administrative Materials

For unamended regulations, cite the year.
Example: Treas. Reg. § 1.41-2 (1989).
Indicate if the regulation is a temporary regulation by beginning the citation with Temp:
Example: Temp. Treas. Reg. § 5e.274-8 (1982). For specific questions and answers, cite as:
Example: Treas. Reg. § 1.72-16(a), Q&A (3)(a) (1963).

If any subsection of the cited section has been amended or appears in substantially different versions, give the year of the most recent amendment. Follow this rule even if the particular subsection you are citing has never been amended.
Example: Treas. Reg. § 1.41-2 (as amended in 2001). Indicate when the source of the amendment is relevant.
Example: Treas. Reg. § 1.41-2 (as amended by T.D. 8930, 65 FR 287).

For proposed Treasury regulations to the Federal Register, cite in the following manner:
Example: Prop. Treas. Reg. § 1.704-1, 48 Fed. Reg. 9871, 9872 (Mar. 9, 1983).

Treasury Determinations: Cite Revenue Rulings, Revenue Procedures, and Treasury Decisions to the Cumulative Bulletin (C.B.) or its advance sheet, the Internal Revenue Bulletin (I.R.B.), or to Treasury Decisions Under Internal Revenue Laws (Treas. Dec. Int. Rev.), in that order of preference.
The numbering of the Cumulative Bulletin is as follows:

1. By volume number from 1919 to 1921.
2. By volume number and part number from 1921 to 1936.
3. By year and part number from 1937 to date.

The abbreviations used are explained in the introductory pages of each volume of the
Cumulative Bulletin.

Private Letter Rulings: Cite by number and the date issued, if available.

Technical Advice Memoranda: Cite by number and the date issued, if available.

General Counsel Memoranda: Cite by number and the date on which the memorandum



117

The Indigo Book


Administrative Materials

was approved.

Other Treasury Determinations: For all other Treasury materials, cite to the Cumulative Bulletin, Internal Revenue Bulletin, or Internal Revenue Manual (IRM).
Delegation Orders (Deleg. Order)
Treasury Orders (Treas. Order) Treasury Directives (Treas. Dir.)
Notices, Announcements, and News Releases Otherwise cite by number and date issued.
Cases: For the Tax Court and Board of Tax Appeals, cite as those of a court, not of an agency.

Acquiescence: The following may be indicated in the case citation if the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service has published an acquiescence (acq.), acquiescence in result only (acq. In result), or nonacquiescence (nonacq.) in a decision of the Tax Court or Board of Tax Appeals.
Action on Decision: To cite an action on decision (action on dec) as subsequent history, include its identifying number, if any, and its full date.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)

Decisions: For Environmental Administrative Decisions (E.A.D.) indicate the decision maker—either the Environmental Appeals Board (EAB) or an administrative law judge—if the source does not make it obvious.
Example: Donald Cutler, 11 E.A.D. 622, 623 (EAB 2004).

Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC)

Decisions: For EEOC decisions that do not have readily identifiable titles, cite using the decision number in place of the title. Otherwise cite per Rule 19.3.
Example: Budnik v. Chertoff, EEOC DOC 0520070154 (2006).

For EEOC Federal Sector decisions that have party names, cite in accordance with Rule 11.2.

Executive Office of the President

Executive Orders, Presidential Proclamations, and Reorganization Plans: Cite by page number to 3 C.F.R. However, since all executive orders are not reprinted in successive years of the C.F.R., cite to the original year, rather than the most recent edition of the C.F.R.


118

H. TABLES


Administrative Materials

Where relevant, include a parallel citation to the U.S.C.
Example: Exec. Order 13,136, 3 C.F.R. 216 (Sep. 3, 1999).

If the material is not in the C.F.R., cite to the Federal Register. Example: Exec. Order 14,023, 86 Fed. Reg. 19569 (April 9, 2021). A parallel citation to the Statutes at Large may also be given.
Other Presidential Papers: Cite to Public Papers of the Presidents (Papers) if found there. If not recorded in the Public Papers, cite the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents (Weekly Comp. Pres. Doc.), published from 1965 to January 29, 2009, the Daily Compilation of Presidential Documents (Daily Comp. Pres. Doc.), published from January 29, 2009 to date, or the U.S. Code Congressional and Administrative News (U.S.C.C.A.N.).
Budgets: Use the structure of book citations for governmental budgets.
Example: Office of Mgmt. & Budget, Exec. Office of the President, Budget of the United States Government, Fiscal Year 2014 (2013).
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)

Decisions: For decisions of administrative law judges in civil penalty enforcement matters adjudicated under 14 C.F.R. pt. 13, § 13.16 and subpart G, cite per Rule R12.4 as slip opinions.
For Decisions of the Administrator or his delegate, cite using an order number, not a docket number.
For Decisions of the Office of Dispute Resolution for Acquisition (ODRA) adjudicated under 14
C.F.R. Part 17, the citation should incorporate the type of dispute.

For other FAA decisions and orders, the citation should indicate the nature of the decision, followed by the date.
Examples:
Federal Express Corporation, FAA Order No. 2002-20, 2002 WL 31777976 (F.A.A.). Envirosolve, LLC, FAA Order No. 2006-2, 2006 WL 465371 (Feb. 7, 2006).
Aerocomp, Inc., FAA Order No. 2006-1, Order Dismissing Appeal (Jan. 12, 2006).

Federal Communications Commission (FCC)

Cite to the Federal Communications Commission Reports (F.C.C., F.C.C.2d), published



119

The Indigo Book


Administrative Materials

1934-1986, or the Federal Communications Commission Record (FCC Rcd.), published since 1986.
Example: Protecting and Promoting the Open Internet, GN Docket No. 14-28, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 29 FCC Rcd 5561 (2014).
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)

Cite decisions to the Federal Energy Guidelines: FERC Reports (FERC).
Example: Filing of Privileged Materials and Answers to Motions, Order No. 769, 141 FERC ¶ 61,049 (2012).
Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA)

Cite decisions to the Decisions of the Federal Labor Relations Authority (F.L.R.A.).

Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (FMSHRC)

Cite decisions to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission Decisions
(FMSHRC).

Federal Reserve System

Enforcement Actions: Cite written agreements resulting from enforcement actions as: Written Agreement between <private bank name> and <Federal Reserve Bank name>, Docket no. <docket number> (<date>).
Example: Written Agreement Between Allied First Bancorp, Inc. and Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, Docket No. 14-006-WA/RB-HC (2014).
Federal Trade Commission (FTC)

Cite decisions to the Federal Trade Commission (F.T.C.).

Government Accountability Office (GAO)

Bid Protest Decisions: Cite to Decisions of the Comptroller General of the United States
(Comp. Gen.).
Example: Space Communications Co., 66 Comp. Gen. 2 (1987).

For unpublished decisions to a readily accessible source, cite as: <protesting party>, <docket number>, <volume number or year> <source> <location within source volume or year> (Comp. Gen. <date>).




120

H. TABLES


Administrative Materials

Do not indicate the publisher when citing these cases to the Comptroller General’s Procurement Decision, published by West.
Examples:
HP Enterprise Services, LLC, B-405692, 2012 CPD ¶ 13 (Comp. Gen. Dec. 14, 2011).
Phoenix Environmental Design, Inc., B-412503, 2016 WL 873296 (Comp. Gen. Mar. 7, 2016).

Insert “et al.” after the docket number where a decision resolves multiple bid protests, each having its own docket number.
Example:
IAP-Hill, LLC, B-406289 et al, 2012 CPD ¶ 151 (Comp. Gen. Apr. 4, 2012).

International Trade Commission (USITC)

Trade Remedy Investigations: Cite as: <investigation name>, Inv. No. <number>, USITC Pub. <number> (<date>) (<status>).
Indicate where a single decision contains multiple investigation numbers.
Examples:
Trade and Investment Polices in India, 2014–2015, Inv. No. 332-550, USITC Pub. 4566 (Sep. 2015).
The Year in Trade 2014: Operation of the Trade Agreements Program, USITC Pub. 4543 (July 2015).
Polyvinyl Alcohol from China, Japan, and Taiwan, Inv. Nos. 701-TA-309, 731-TA-528, 731-TA-529, USITC Pub. 4067 (Mar. 27, 2009) (Review).
Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB)

Cite decisions to the Decisions of the United States Merit Systems Protection Board
(M.S.P.B.).

National Labor Relations Board (NLRB)

Cite decisions and orders to the Decisions and Orders of the National Labor Relations Board
(N.L.R.B.).

National Mediation Board (NMB)

Cite decisions to the Decisions of the National Mediation Board (N.M.B.).



121

The Indigo Book


Administrative Materials

National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB)

Cite decisions to the National Transportation Safety Board Decisions (N.T.S.B.), published from 1967-1977.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC)

For decisions of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, cite to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission Issuances (N.R.C.).
For decisions of its predecessor, the Atomic Energy Commission (1956–1975), cite to the
Atomic Energy Commission Reports (A.E.C.).

Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (OSHRC)

Decisions: For commission decisions reported in a service, cite as: <party name>, <service volume number> <publisher> <service, abbreviated as below> <page/paragraph number> (No. <docket number>, <year>).
Example: US Pagoda, Inc., CCH OSHD ¶ 33123 (No. 10-2035, 2011).

At the end of a citation, indicate parenthetically when an administrative law judge issued the decision, rather than the commission.
Example: Miller Construction Co., 24 BL OSHC 1817 (No. 13-0323, 2013) (ALJ).

The abbreviations OSHRC uses for services reporting its decisions vary from those in Table T4 as follows:
Occupational Safety & Health Cases (BL)	BL OSHC

Occupational Safety & Health Decisions (CCH)	CCH OSHD

A decision that is not cited in any service or database may be cited as an unpublished slip opinion following the format in Rule R12.4.
Example: Prime Roofing Corp., No. 07-1409 (OSHRC Feb. 5, 2008), https://www.pewtrusts.org/-/media/assets/2020/06/debt-collectors-to-consumers.pdf
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)

Interpretive Letters, No-Action Letters, and Exemptive Letters: Cite a looseleaf service or an electronic database. In the citation, include the correspondent’s full name and the date that the letter became publicly available.




122

H. TABLES


Administrative Materials Examples:
Poplogix LLC, SEC No-Action Letter, 2010 WL 4472794 (Nov. 5, 2010).
MP Environmental Funding LLC, SEC Interpretive Letter, 2007 WL 2838964 (Sep. 19, 2007)

Releases: Cite the Federal Register, SEC Docket, or a loose-leaf service. Releases that have subject-matter title may be presented in a short form. Make sure to include the act under which the release was issued, the release number, and the date.
Example: SEC Whistleblower Rules, Exchange Act Release No. 75592, 80 Fed. Reg 47829 (Aug. 10, 2015).
If the release is an adjudication, abbreviate the parties’ names according to Rule 11.
Example: Midas Sec., LLC, Exchange Act Release No. 66200, 102 SEC Docket 3123, 102 SEC Docket 3137 (Jan. 20, 2012).
If the adjudication occurred before an administrative law judge, indicate this fact in the date parenthetical.
If a particular release is issued under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or the Investment Company Act, a parallel citation should be given in that order.
Staff Interpretations: Cite SEC Staff Accounting Bulletins, Staff Legal Bulletins, and Telephone Interpretations as follows:
Example: SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99, 64 Fed. Reg. 45150 (Aug. 19, 1999).

SEC Filings: For annual reports, proxy statements, and other company filings required under federal securities laws, provide the name of the company (abbreviated according to Rule 15), the title as given in the document, the form type in parentheses, the page number if applicable, and the full date of filing with the SEC.
Example: Apple Inc., Annual Report (Form 10-K), (Oct. 28, 2015).

If citing annual reports, proxy statements, or other documents in a form other than that filed with the SEC, treat as books under Rule 15.
Example: Facebook, Inc., 2014 Annual Report (2014).

Small Business Administration (SBA)

Decisions: Cite decisions as: <party name>, SBA No. <docket number> (<date>).
Example: OxyHeal Medical Systems, Inc., SBA No. SIZ-5707 (Jan. 19 2016).



123

The Indigo Book


Administrative Materials

The docket number indicates the type of decision:

Small disadvantaged business	SDBA

Size determination	SIZ

Service-disabled veteran-owned business	VET

Business development program	BDP

North American Industry Classification System	NAICS

Social Security Administration (SSA)

Rulings and Acquiescence Rulings: For Social Security Rulings, cite as SSR; for Social Security Acquiescence Rulings, cite as SSAR.
Cite to the Social Security Rulings, Cumulative Edition (S.S.R. Cum. Ed.). If not published there, cite to another official source, such as the Code of Federal Regulations or the Federal Register. Otherwise, cite a commercial database or other source.
Example: SSR 62-2, 1960-1974 Soc. Sec. Rep. Serv. 69 (Jan. 1, 1962).

Surface Transportation Board (STB)

For materials from the Surface Transportation Board, cite to the Surface Transportation Board Reporter (S.T.B.). For materials from its predecessor, cite to the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC), to the Interstate Commerce Commission Reporter (I.C.C., I.C.C. 2d).
The official date for unpublished decisions is the date on which the decision was served on the parties or otherwise filed by the STB (or ICC). Do not cite the date of the decision.

T3 U.S. States and Other Jurisdictions
This table provides a uniform standard for citing state and U.S. territorial legal sources. It also provides selected Local Notes on state-specific practices. This table does not attempt to comprehensively address state-specific citation rules and customs; indeed its primary use is simply to illustrate that many states do in fact adopt small and wide variations from the Uniform System of Citations. To dig deep into a particular state’s citations rules and customs, refer to court websites, court rules, and state style manuals if available, as well as the expertise of law librarians and legal professionals. See also Peter Martin, Introduction to Basic Legal Citation § 7-500, Table of State-Specific Citation Norms and Practices, https://www.law.cornell.edu/citation/7-500. Updates and suggested Local Notes may be



124

H. TABLES

provided to the editors of The Indigo Book.

Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Alabama

Supreme Court (Ala.): Cite to So., So. 2d, or So. 3d.

Southern Reporter	1886–date So., So. 2d, So. 3d

Alabama Reports	1840–1976 Ala.

Porter	1834–1839 Port.

Stewart and Porter	1831–1834 Stew. & P.

Stewart	1827–1831 Stew.

Minor	1820–1826 Minor

Court of Civil Appeals (Ala. Civ. App.) and Court of Criminal Appeals (Ala. Crim. App.), before 1969 Court of Appeals (Ala. Ct. App.): Cite to So., So. 2d, or So. 3d.
Southern Reporter	1911–date	So., So. 2d, So. 3d

Alabama Appellate Courts Reports	1911–1974  Ala. App.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Ala. Code (published by West).

Code of Alabama, 1975 (West)	Ala. Code § x-x-x (<year>)
Michie’s Alabama Code, 1975 (LexisNexis)	Ala. Code § x-x-x (LexisNexis <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Ala. Laws.

Alabama Laws	<year> Ala. Laws <page
no.>

West’s Alabama Legislative Service	<year> Ala. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)


Michie’s Alabama Code <year> Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)

Administrative compilation

<year>-<pamph. no.> Ala. Adv. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (LexisNexis)





125

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Alabama Administrative Code	Ala. Admin. Code r. x-x-
x.x (<year>)

Administrative register

Alabama Administrative Monthly	<vol. no.> Ala. Admin.
Monthly <page no.> (<month day, year>)
Alaska

Supreme Court (Alaska): Cite to P.2d or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1960–date P.2d, P.3d

Court of Appeals (Alaska Ct. App.): Cite to P.2d or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1980–date P.2d, P.3d

District Courts of Alaska (D. Alaska): These courts had local jurisdiction from 1884 to 1959. Cite to F. Supp., F., or F.2d; else, cite to Alaska or Alaska Fed., in that order of preference.
Federal Supplement	1946–1959 F. Supp.

Federal Reporter	1886–1932 F., F.2d

Alaska Reports	1887–1958 Alaska

Alaska Federal Reports	1869–1937 Alaska Fed.

United States District Courts for California and Oregon, and District Courts of Washington (D. Cal., D. Or., D. Wash.): These courts had local jurisdiction in Alaska until 1884. Cite to F. or F. Cas.
Federal Reporter	1880–1884 F.

Federal Cases	1867–1880 F. Cas.

Alaska Federal Reports	1869–1937 Alaska Fed.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Alaska Stat.

Alaska Statutes (LexisNexis)	Alaska Stat. § x.x.x (<year>)
West’s Alaska Statutes Annotated	Alaska Stat. Ann. § x.x.x


126

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

(West <year>)

Session laws: Cite to Alaska Sess. Laws.

Session Laws of Alaska	<year> Alaska Sess.
Laws <page no.>

Alaska Statutes <year> Advance Legislative Service	<year>-<pamph. no.> Alaska Adv. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (LexisNexis)

West’s Alaska Legislative Service	<year> Alaska Legis.
Serv. <page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Alaska Administrative Code (LexisNexis)	Alaska Admin. Code tit. x, § x.x (<year>)
Arizona

Supreme Court (Ariz.): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1883–date P., P.2d, P.3d

Arizona Reports	1866–date Ariz.

Court of Appeals (Ariz. Ct. App.): Cite to P.2d or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1965–date P.2d, P.3d

Arizona Reports	1976–date Ariz.

Arizona Appeals Reports	1965–1977 Ariz. App.

Tax Court (Ariz. Tax Ct.): Cite to P.2d or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1988–date P.2d, P.3d

Statutory compilations: Cite to Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann.

Arizona Revised Statutes Annotated (West)	Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § x- x (<year>)
Arizona Revised Statutes (LexisNexis)	Ariz. Rev. Stat. § x-x (LexisNexis <year>)




127

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Session laws: Cite to Ariz. Sess. Laws.

Session Laws, Arizona	<year> Ariz. Sess. Laws
<page no.>

Arizona Legislative Service (West)	<year> Ariz. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Arizona Administrative Code	Ariz. Admin. Code § x-x- x (<year>)
Administrative register

Arizona Administrative Register	<vol. no.> Ariz. Admin.
Reg. <page no.> (<month day, year>)
Arkansas

Supreme Court (Ark.): Cite to S.W., S.W.2d, or S.W.3d.

South Western Reporter	1886–date S.W., S.W.2d, or S.W.3d

Arkansas Reports	1837–2009 Ark.

Court of Appeals (Ark. Ct. App.): Cite to S.W.2d or S.W.3d.

South Western Reporter	1979–date S.W.2d, S.W.3d

Arkansas Appellate Reports	1981–2009 Ark. App.

Arkansas Reports	1979–1981 Ark.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Ark. Code Ann. (published by LexisNexis).

Arkansas Code of 1987 Annotated (LexisNexis)	Ark. Code Ann. § x-x-x (<year>)
West's Arkansas Code Annotated	Ark. Code Ann. § x-x-x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Ark. Acts.

Acts of Arkansas (West)	<year> Ark. Acts <page no.>


128

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation


Arkansas Code of 1987 Annotated <year> Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)

<year>-<pamph. no.> Ark. Adv. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (LexisNexis)


West's Arkansas Legislative Service	<year> Ark. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Code of Arkansas Rules (LexisNexis)	x-x-x Ark. Code R. § x (LexisNexis <year>)
Administrative registers: Cite to Ark. Reg.

Arkansas Register	<vol. no.> Ark. Reg.
<page no.> (<month year>)
Arkansas Government Register	<iss. no.> Ark. Gov’t Reg. <page no.> (LexisNexis <month year>)
Local Notes:
Arkansas has adopted a public domain citation format for cases after February 13, 2009. Citations include a parallel citation to the Southwestern Reports or other source. For additional instruction, consult Arkansas Supreme Court Rule 5-2.
Examples:
Box v. J.B. Hunt Transp., Inc., 2017 Ark. App. 605, 533 S.W.3d 603.
Mounce v. Jeronimo Insulating LLC, 2021 Ark. App. 195, 2021 WL 1655901.
See generally Arkansas Reporter of Decisions, House Style Guide (2010), https://courts.arkansas.gov/sites/default/files
/House%20Style%20Guide%20September2010.pdf (“This House Style Guide is intended for internal use by the judiciary and staff of the Arkansas Supreme Court and Court of Appeals in preparing opinions. Practitioners may also consult this House Style Guide, but must adhere to specific requirements of the Arkansas Rules of the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals regarding pleadings, briefs, and other documents submitted to the supreme court and court of appeals.”)


129

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

California Local Notes:
The year of cases is indicated parenthetically after the case name. Parallel citations may be
placed in brackets after the California Reports citation. Citation sentences are entirely enclosed in parentheses.
Example: (Brescia v. Angelin (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 133 [90 Cal.Rptr.3d 842]).
California statutory and administrative code citations follow state-specific abbreviations, such as Cal. U. Com. Code for the California Uniform Commercial Code.
See Edward W. Jessen, California Style Manual: A Handbook of Legal Style for California Courts and Lawyers (4th ed. 2000), available at http://www.sdap.org/downloads/Style- Manual.pdf
Supreme Court (Cal.): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1883–date P., P.2d, P.3d

California Reports	1850–date Cal., Cal. 2d, Cal. 3d, Cal. 4th
West’s California Reporter	1959–date Cal. Rptr., Cal. Rptr. 2d, Cal. Rptr. 3d
California Unreported Cases	1855–1910 Cal. Unrep.

Court of Appeal (Cal. Ct. App.), previously District Court of Appeal (Cal. Dist. Ct. App.): Cite to P. or P.2d (before 1960) or Cal. Rptr., Cal. Rptr. 2d (after 1959), or Cal. Rptr.
3d.

West’s California Reporter	1959–date Cal. Rptr., Cal. Rptr. 2d, Cal. Rptr. 3d
Pacific Reporter	1905–1959 P., P.2d

California Appellate Reports	1905–date Cal. App., Cal. App. 2d, Cal. App. 3d, Cal. App. 4th
Appellate Divisions of the Superior Court (Cal. App. Dep’t Super. Ct.): Cite to P. or P.2d (before 1960) or to Cal. Rptr., Cal. Rptr. 2d (after 1959), or Cal. Rptr. 3d.



130

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

West’s California Reporter	1959–date Cal. Rptr., Cal. Rptr. 2d, Cal. Rptr. 3d
Pacific Reporter	1929–1959 P., P.2d


California Appellate Reports Supplement (bound with Cal. App.)

1929–date Cal. App. Supp., Cal.
App. 2d Supp., Cal. App. 3d Supp., Cal. App. 4th Supp.

Statutory compilations: Cite to either the West or the Deering subject-matter code.

West’s Annotated California Codes	Cal. <Subject> Code § x (West <year>)
Deering’s California Codes, Annotated (LexisNexis)	Cal. <Subject> Code § x (Deering <year>)
Agricultural (renamed “Food and Agricultural” in 1972)	Agric. Business and Professions	Bus. & Prof.
Civil	Civ.

Civil Procedure	Civ. Proc.

Commercial	Com.

Corporations	Corp.

Education	Educ.

Elections	Elec.

Evidence	Evid.

Family	Fam.

Financial	Fin.

Fish and Game	Fish & Game

Food and Agricultural (formerly “Agricultural”)	Food & Agric.

Government	Gov’t

Harbors and Navigation	Harb. & Nav.



131

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Health and Safety	Health & Safety

Insurance	Ins.

Labor	Lab.

Military and Veterans	Mil. & Vet.

Penal	Penal

Probate	Prob.

Public Contract	Pub. Cont.

Public Resources	Pub. Res.

Public Utilities	Pub. Util.

Revenue and Taxation	Rev. & Tax.

Streets and Highways	Sts. & High.

Unemployment Insurance	Unemp. Ins.

Vehicle	Veh.

Water	Water

Welfare and Institutions	Welf. & Inst.

Session laws: Cite to Cal. Stat.

Statutes of California	<year> Cal. Stat. <page
no.>

West’s California Legislative Service	<year> Cal. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)


Deering’s California Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)

Administrative compilation

California Code of Regulations (West)


Administrative register

<year>-<pamph. no.> Cal. Adv. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (LexisNexis)


Cal. Code Regs. tit. x, § x (<year>)




132

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

California Regulatory Notice Register	<iss. no.> Cal.
Regulatory Notice Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Colorado

Supreme Court (Colo.): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d, if found there; else, cite to Colo., if found there, or to Colo. Law. or Brief Times Rptr.
Pacific Reporter	1883–date P., P.2d, P.3d

Colorado Reports	1864–1980 Colo.

Colorado Lawyer	1972–date Colo. Law.

Brief Times Reporter	1977–1996 Brief Times Rptr.

Colorado Journal	1996–2002 Colo. J.

Law Week Colorado	2002–date L. Week Colo.

Court of Appeals (Colo. App.): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d, if found there; else, cite to Colo. App., if found there, or else to one of the other reporters listed below.
Pacific Reporter	1970–date P.2d, P.3d

1912–1915 P.

1891–1905 P.

Colorado Court of Appeals Reports	1891–1905 Colo. App. 1912–1915 Colo. App.
1970–1980 Colo. App.

Colorado Lawyer	1972–date Colo. Law.

Brief Times Reporter	1977–1996 Brief Times Rptr.

Colorado Journal	1996–2002 Colo. J.

Law Week Colorado	2002–date L. Week Colo.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Colo. Rev. Stat.

Colorado Revised Statutes (LexisNexis):	Colo. Rev. Stat. § x-x-x



133

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Colo. Rev. Stat. § <title-article-section> (<year>)	(<year>)


West’s Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated:
Colo. Rev. Stat. Ann. § <title-article-section> (West
<year>)

Session laws: Cite to Colo. Sess. Laws.

Colo. Rev. Stat. Ann. § x-x-x (West <year>)



Session Laws of Colorado (LexisNexis)


Colorado Legislative Service (West)


Administrative compilations: Cite to Colo. Code Regs. Colorado Code of Regulations

Code of Colorado Regulations (LexisNexis)



Administrative register

Colorado Register



Local Notes:

<year> Colo. Sess. Laws
<page no.>

<year> Colo. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (West)


Colo. Code Regs. § x-x (<year>)
<vol. no.> Colo. Code Regs. § x-x (LexisNexis
<year>)


<iss. no.> Colo. Reg.
<page no.> (<month year>)


Colorado has adopted a public domain citation format for cases after January 3, 2012. For additional information, consult Rules of the Supreme Court of Colorado, Chief Justice Directive 12-01.
Examples:
McCoy v. People, 2019 CO 44, ¶ 20, 442 P.3d 379, 385.
People v. McClintic, 202 COA 120M, 484 P.3d 724.

Connecticut

Supreme Court (Conn.), previously Supreme Court of Errors (Conn.): Cite to A., A.2d, or A.3d.


134

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Atlantic Reporter	1885–date A., A.2d, A.3d

Connecticut Reports	1814–date  Conn.

Day	1802–1813 Day

Root	1789–1798 Root

Kirby	1785–1789 Kirby

Appellate Court (Conn. App. Ct.): Cite to A.2d or A.3d.

Atlantic Reporter	1983–date A.2d, A.3d

Connecticut Appellate Reports	1983–date Conn. App.

Superior Court (Conn. Super. Ct.) and Court of Common Pleas (Conn. C.P.): Cite to A.2d or A.3d, if found there; else, cite to Conn. Supp., if found there, or else to one of the other reporters listed below.
Atlantic Reporter	1954–date A.2d, A.3d

Connecticut Supplement	1935–date Conn. Supp.

Connecticut Law Reporter	1990–date Conn. L. Rptr.

Connecticut Superior Court Reports	1986–1994 Conn. Super. Ct.

Circuit Court (Conn. Cir. Ct.): Cite to A.2d or A.3d.

Atlantic Reporter	1961–1974 A.2d, A.3d

Connecticut Circuit Court Reports	1961–1974 Conn. Cir. Ct.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Conn. Gen. Stat.

General Statutes of Connecticut	Conn. Gen. Stat. § x-x (<year>)
Connecticut General Statutes Annotated (West)	Conn. Gen. Stat. Ann. § x-x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Conn. Acts, Conn. Pub. Acts, or Conn. Spec. Acts.

Connecticut Public & Special Acts	1972–date <year> Conn. Acts
<page no.> ([Reg. or Spec.] Sess.)



135

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Connecticut Public Acts	1650–1971 <year> Conn. Pub. Acts
<page no.>


Connecticut Special Acts (Resolves & Private Laws, Private & Special Laws, Special Laws, Resolves & Private Acts, Resolutions & Private Acts, Private Acts & Resolutions, and Special Acts & Resolutions)

1789–1971 <year> Conn. Spec. Acts
<page no.>

Connecticut Legislative Service (West)	<year> Conn. Legis.
Serv. <page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies	Conn. Agencies Regs. § x-x-x (<year>)
Administrative registers: Cite to Conn. L.J.

Connecticut Law Journal	<vol. no.> Conn. L.J.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Connecticut Government Register (LexisNexis)	<iss. no.> Conn. Gov’t Reg. <page no.> (LexisNexis <month year>)
Local Notes:
See generallyOffice of the Reporter of Judicial Decisions, The Manual of Style for the Connecticut Courts (3d ed. 2013).
Delaware

Supreme Court (Del.), previously Court of Errors and Appeals (Del.): Cite to A., A.2d, or A.3d.
Atlantic Reporter	1886–date A., A.2d, A.3d Delaware Reports
31 Del. to 59 Del.	1919–1966 Del.

Boyce	1909–1920 e.g., 24 Del. (1 Boyce)




136

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Pennewill	1897–1909 e.g., 17 Del. (1 Penne.)

Marvel	1893–1897 e.g., 15 Del. (1 Marv.)

Houston	1855–1893 e.g., 6 Del. (1 Houst.)

Harrington	1832–1855 e.g., 1 Del. (1 Harr.)

Delaware Cases	1792–1830 Del. Cas.

Court of Chancery (Del. Ch.): Cite to A., A.2d, or A.3d.

Atlantic Reporter	1886–date A., A.2d, A.3d

Delaware Chancery Reports	1814–1968 Del. Ch.

Delaware Cases	1792–1830 Del. Cas.

Superior Court (Del. Super. Ct.), previously Superior Court and Orphans’ Court (Del. Super. Ct. & Orphans’ Ct.): Cite to A.2d or A.3d, if found there; else, cite to one of the official reporters listed under Supreme Court (Del.).
Atlantic Reporter	1951–date  A.2d, A.3d

Family Court (Del. Fam. Ct.): Cite to A.2d or A.3d.

Atlantic Reporter	1977–date  A.2d, A.3d

Statutory compilations: Cite to Del. Code Ann.

Delaware Code Annotated (LexisNexis)	Del. Code Ann. tit. x, § x (<year>)
West’s Delaware Code Annotated	Del. Code Ann. tit. x, § x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Del. Laws.

Laws of Delaware	<vol. no.> Del. Laws
<page no.> (<year>)


Delaware Code Annotated <year> Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)

<year>-<pamph. no.> Del. Code. Ann. Adv. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (LexisNexis)

West’s Delaware Legislative Service	<year> Del. Legis. Serv.


137

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

<page no.> (West)

Administrative compilations: Cite to Del. Admin. Code.

Delaware Administrative Code	x-x-x Del. Admin. Code
§ x (<year>)

Code of Delaware Regulations (LexisNexis)	x-x-x Del. Code Regs. § x (LexisNexis <year>)
Administrative registers: Cite to Del. Reg. Regs.

Delaware Register of Regulations	<vol. no.> Del. Reg.
Regs. <page no.> (<month day, year>)
Delaware Government Register (LexisNexis)	<iss. no.> Del Gov’t Reg.
<page no.> (LexisNexis
<month year>)

Local Notes:
The Delaware Code is cited as <vol.> Del. C. <section>. See generally Superior Court of Delaware, Guide to the Delaware Rules of Legal Citation (2004), https://courts.delaware.gov
/superior/pdf/citation_guide.pdf
Blake Rohrbacher, Delaware Uniform Citations (2008), https://courts.delaware.gov/superior
/pdf/de_uniform_citation_2008.pdf (adopted by the Litigation Section of the Delaware State Bar Association).
District of Columbia

Court of Appeals (D.C.), previously Municipal Court of Appeals (D.C.): Cite to A.2d or A.3d.
Atlantic Reporter	1943–date A.2d, A.3d

United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Cir.), previously Court of Appeals of/for the District of Columbia (D.C. Cir.), previously Supreme Court of the District of Columbia (D.C.): Cite to F., F.2d, or F.3d.
Federal Reporter	1919–date  F., F.2d, F.3d

United States Court of Appeals Reports	1941–date  U.S. App. D.C.




138

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Appeal Cases, District of Columbia	1893–1941 App. D.C. District of Columbia Reports
Tucker and Clephane	1892–1893 21 D.C. (Tuck. & Cl.)

Mackey	1880–1892 <12–20> D.C. (Mackey
<1–9>)

MacArthur and Mackey	1879–1880 11 D.C. (MacArth. & M.)

MacArthur	1873–1879 <8–10> D.C. (MacArth.
<1–3>)

District of Columbia Reports (reported by Mackey)	1863–1872 <6–7> D.C.


Hayward & Hazleton, Circuit Court (Circuit Court Reports, vols. 6–7)
Cranch, Circuit Court

1840–1863 <1–2> Hay. & Haz.


1801–1840 <1–5> D.C. (Cranch
<1–5>)


Superior Court (D.C. Super. Ct.), previously Municipal Court (D.C. Mun. Ct.): Cite to Daily Wash. L. Rptr.
Daily Washington Law Reporter	1971–date  Daily Wash. L. Rptr.

Statutory compilations: Cite to D.C. Code.

District of Columbia Official Code (LexisNexis)	D.C. Code § x-x (<year>)
West's District of Columbia Code Annotated (West)	D.C. Code Ann. § x-x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Stat., D.C. Reg., or D.C. Code Adv. Leg. Serv.

United States Statutes at Large	<vol. no.> Stat. <page no.> (<year>)
District of Columbia Register	<vol. no.> D.C. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)

District of Columbia Official Code Lexis Advance Legislative Service

<year>-<pamph. no.>
D.C. Code Adv. Leg.



139

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Serv. <page no.>

District of Columbia Session Law Service West	<year> D.C. Sess. L. Serv. <page no.> (West)
Municipal regulations: Cite to D.C. Mun. Regs.

Code of D.C. Municipal Regulations	D.C. Mun. Regs. tit. x, § x (<year>)

Code of District of Columbia Municipal Regulations (LexisNexis)

Administrative register

District of Columbia Register



Local Notes:

D.C. Code Mun. Regs. tit. x § x (LexisNexis
<year>)


<vol. no.> D.C. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)


See generally District of Columbia Court of Appeals Style Guide (2019), https://www.dccourts.gov/sites/default/files/matters-docs/DCCACitationGuide.pdf
Florida

Supreme Court (Fla.): Cite to So., So. 2d, or So. 3d.

Southern Reporter	1886–date So., So. 2d, So. 3d

Florida Reports	1846–1948 Fla.

Florida Law Weekly	1978–date Fla. L. Weekly

District Court of Appeal (Fla. Dist. Ct. App.): Cite to So. 2d or So. 3d. Southern Reporter	1957–date So. 2d, So. 3d
Florida Law Weekly	1978–date Fla. L. Weekly

Circuit Court (Fla. Cir. Ct.), County Court (e.g., Fla. Orange Cnty. Ct.), Public Service Commission (Fla. P.S.C.), and other lower courts of record: Cite to Fla. Supp. or Fla. Supp. 2d.
Florida Supplement	1950–1991 Fla. Supp., Fla. Supp. 2d



140

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Florida Law Weekly Supplement	1992–date Fla. L. Weekly Supp.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Fla. Stat.

Florida Statutes	Fla. Stat. § x.x (<year>)

West’s Florida Statutes Annotated	Fla. Stat. Ann. § x.x (West <year>)
LexisNexis Florida Statutes Annotated	Fla. Stat. Ann. § x.x (LexisNexis <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Fla. Laws.

Laws of Florida	<year> Fla. Laws <page
no.>

West’s Florida Session Law Service	<year> Fla. Sess. Law Serv. <page no.> (West)
Administrative compilation

Florida Administrative Code Annotated (LexisNexis)	Fla. Admin. Code Ann.
r. x-x.x (<year>)

Administrative register: Cite to Fla. Admin. Reg.

Florida Administrative Register	2012–date <vol. no.> Fla. Admin.
Reg. <page no.> (<month day, year>)
Florida Administrative Weekly (LexisNexis)	1996–2012 <vol. no.> Fla. Admin.
Weekly <page no.> (<month day, year>)
Local Notes:
Florida statutes are customarily cited with section first: § xx.xxx, Fla. Stat. (2020).
At the intermediate appellate level, the Florida courts are divided into five District Courts of Appeal. Citations indicate the applicable District Court of Appeal, abbreviated as DCA. See Fla.
R. App. P. 8.800; Indigo Book Rule R12.1.2.
Example: Saldana v. State, 295 So. 3d 1235 (Fla. 1st DCA 2020).
See generallyFlorida Style Manual (Florida State Univ. Law Rev., eds.,8th ed. 2019),


141

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

https://www.floridastylemanual.com/

Georgia

Supreme Court (Ga.): Cite to S.E. or S.E.2d.

South Eastern Reporter	1887–date S.E., S.E.2d

Georgia Reports	1846–date Ga.

Court of Appeals (Ga. Ct. App.): Cite to S.E. or S.E.2d.

South Eastern Reporter	1907–date S.E., S.E.2d

Georgia Appeals Reports	1907–date Ga. App.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Ga. Code Ann. (published by LexisNexis).

Official Code of Georgia Annotated (LexisNexis)	Ga. Code Ann. § x-x-x (<year>)
West’s Code of Georgia Annotated	Ga. Code Ann. § x-x-x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Ga. Laws.

Georgia Laws	<year> Ga. Laws <page
no.>

Georgia <year> Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)	<year>-<pamph. no.>
Ga. Code Ann. Adv. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (LexisNexis)
West’s Georgia Legislative Service	<year> Ga. Code Ann. Adv. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Official Compilation Rules and Regulations of the State of Georgia
Administrative register



Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. x- x-x.x (<year>)


Georgia Government Register (LexisNexis)	<iss. no.> Ga. Gov’t Reg.



142

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

<page no.> (LexisNexis
<month year>)

Local Notes:
The Official Code of Georgia Annotated is cited as O.C.G.A. See O.C.G.A. § 1-1-8(e).

Hawaii

Supreme Court (Haw.): Cite to P.2d or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1959–date P.2d, P.3d

West’s Hawaii Reports (begins with vol. 76)	1994–date Haw. Hawaii Reports (ends with vol. 75)	1847–1994 Haw. Intermediate Court of Appeals (Haw. Ct. App.): Cite to P.2d or P.3d. Pacific Reporter	1980–date P.2d, P.3d
West’s Hawaii Reports	1994–date Haw.

Hawaii Appellate Reports	1980–1994 Haw. App.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Haw. Rev. Stat.

Hawaii Revised Statutes	Haw. Rev. Stat. § x-x
(<year>)

Michie’s Hawaii Revised Statutes Annotated (LexisNexis)	Haw. Rev. Stat. Ann. §
x-x (LexisNexis <year>)

West’s Hawai'i Revised Statutes Annotated	Haw. Rev. Stat. Ann. § x-x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Haw. Sess. Laws.

Session Laws of Hawaii	<year> Haw. Sess. Laws
<page no.>


Michie’s Hawaii Revised Statutes Annotated Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)

<year>-<pamph. no.> Haw. Rev. Stat. Ann. Adv. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (LexisNexis)

West’s Hawai'i Legislative Service	<year> Haw. Legis.


143

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Serv. <page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Code of Hawaii Rules (LexisNexis)	Haw. Code R. § x-x-x (LexisNexis <year>)
Administrative register

Hawaii Government Register (LexisNexis)	<iss. no.> Haw. Gov’t Reg. <page no.> (LexisNexis <month year>)
Local Notes:
See generally A Handbook of Citation Forms for the Law Clerks at the Appellate Courts of the State of Hawai’i (2008), https://www.law.hawaii.edu/sites/www.law.hawaii.edu/files/content
/library/HandbookofCitationForm.pdf (keyed to The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation
(Columbia L. Rev. et al., eds., 18th ed. 2005)).

Idaho

Supreme Court (Idaho): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1883–date P., P.2d, P.3d

Idaho Reports	1866–date Idaho

Court of Appeals (Idaho Ct. App.): Cite to P.2d or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1982–date P.2d, P.3d

Idaho Reports	1982–date Idaho

Statutory compilations: Cite to Idaho Code (published by LexisNexis).

Idaho Code (LexisNexis)	Idaho Code § x-x
(<year>)

West’s Idaho Code Annotated	Idaho Code Ann. § x-x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Idaho Sess. Laws.

Idaho Session Laws	<year> Idaho Sess.



144

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Laws <page no.>


Idaho Code Annotated Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)

<year>-<pamph. no.> Idaho Code Ann. Adv. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (LexisNexis)

West’s Idaho Legislative Service	<year> Idaho Legis.
Serv. <page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation: http://adminrules.gov/rules/current

Idaho Administrative Code	Idaho Admin. Code r.
x.x.x.x (<year>)

Administrative register

Idaho Administrative Bulletin	<vol. no.> Idaho Admin.
Bull. <page no.> (<month day, year>)
Local Notes:
The Idaho Code is commonly cited in the state as I.C. § xx-xxxx.

Illinois

Supreme Court (Ill.): Cite to N.E., N.E.2d, or N.E.3d.

North Eastern Reporter	1884–date N.E., N.E.2d, N.E.3d

Illinois Official Reports	2011–date <year> IL <docket no.> Illinois Reports
11 Ill. to date	1849–2011 Ill., Ill. 2d

Gilman	1844–1849 e.g., 6 Ill. (1 Gilm.)

Scammon	1832–1843 e.g., 2 Ill. (1 Scam.)

Breese	1819–1831 1 Ill. (Breese)

West's Illinois Decisions	1976–date Ill. Dec.

Appellate Court (Ill. App. Ct.): Cite to N.E.2d, N.E.3d.




145

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

North Eastern Reporter	1936–date N.E.2d, N.E.3d

Illinois Official Reports	2011–date <year> IL App. (<court no.>)
Illinois Appellate Court Reports	1877–2011 Ill. App., Ill. App. 2d, Ill.
App. 3d

West’s Illinois Decisions	1976–date Ill. Dec.

Illinois Circuit Court (Ill. Cir. Ct.), previously Court of Claims (Ill. Ct. Cl.): Cite to Ill. Ct. Cl.
Illinois Court of Claims Reports	1889–date Ill. Ct. Cl.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Ill. Comp. Stat.

Illinois Compiled Statutes	<ch. no.> Ill. Comp.
Stat. <act no.> / <sec. no.> (<year>)
West’s Smith-Hurd Illinois Compiled Statutes Annotated	<ch. no.> Ill. Comp.
Stat. Ann. <act no.> /
<sec. no.> (West
<year>)

Illinois Compiled Statutes Annotated (LexisNexis)	<ch. no.> Ill. Comp. Stat. Ann. <act no.> /
<sec. no.> (LexisNexis
<year>)

Session laws: Cite to Ill. Laws.

Laws of Illinois	<year> Ill. Laws <page
no.>

Illinois Legislative Service (West)	<year> Ill. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)


Illinois Compiled Statutes Annotated Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)

<year>-<pamph. no.> Ill. Comp. Stat. Ann.
Adv. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (LexisNexis)




146

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Administrative compilations: Cite to Ill. Admin. Code.

Illinois Administrative Code	Ill. Admin. Code tit. x, § x (<year>)
Code of Illinois Rules (LexisNexis)	<vol. no.> Ill. Code R.
<rule no.> (LexisNexis
<year>)

Administrative register

Illinois Register	<vol. no.> Ill. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Local Notes:
The Illinois Compiled Statutes are cited using “ILCS.”
Example: 735 ILCS 5/2-1401(e) (West 2016).
Illinois has adopted a public domain citation format for cases effective July 1, 2011. See Illinois Supreme Court Rule 6. Thus, when citing an Illinois intermediate appellate court decision and including a parallel citation to the North Eastern Reporter, it is advisable to include the intermediate appellate division, noting also that the public domain format renders the court and year unambiguously clear. See generallyStyle Manual for the Supreme Court and Appellate Courts of Illinois (5th ed. 2017), https://courts.illinois.gov/StyleManual/SupCrt
_StyleManual.pdf
Examples:
People v. Doe, 2011 IL 102345
People v. Doe, 2011 IL App (1st) 101234
Archer Daniels Midland Co. v. Sinele, 2019 IL App (4th) 180714, 139 N.E.3d 1036.

Indiana

Supreme Court (Ind.): Cite to N.E., N.E.2d, N.E.3d.

North Eastern Reporter	1885–date N.E., N.E.2d, N.E.3d

Indiana Reports	1848–1981 Ind.

Blackford	1817–1847 Blackf.



147

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Court of Appeals (Ind. Ct. App.), previously Appellate Court (Ind. App.): Cite to N.E., N.E.2d, or N.E.3d.
North Eastern Reporter	1891–date N.E., N.E.2d, N.E.3d


Indiana Court of Appeals Reports (prior to 1972, Indiana Appellate Court Reports)
Tax Court (Ind. T.C.): Cite to N.E.2d or N.E.3d.

1890–1979 Ind. App.



North Eastern Reporter

Statutory compilations: Cite to Ind. Code. Indiana Code

West’s Annotated Indiana Code


Burns Indiana Statutes Annotated (LexisNexis)


Session laws: Cite to Ind. Acts. Acts, Indiana

West’s Indiana Legislative Service


Burns Indiana Statutes Annotated Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)

1986–date

N.E., N.E.2d, N.E.3d


Ind. Code § x-x-x-x (<year>)
Ind. Code Ann. § x-x-x-x (West <year>)
Ind. Code Ann. § x-x-x-x (LexisNexis <year>)


<year> Ind. Acts <page no.>
<year> Ind. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)

<year>-<pamph. no.> Ind. Stat. Ann. Adv.
Legis. Serv. <page no.> (LexisNexis)

Administrative compilations: Cite to Ind. Admin. Code.

Indiana Administrative Code	<tit. no.> Ind. Admin.
Code x-x-x (<year>)

West’s Indiana Administrative Code	<tit. no.> Ind. Admin. Code Code x-x-x (West
<year>)



148

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Administrative register

Indiana Register	<vol. no.> Ind. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Local Notes:
The Indiana Code is referred to in short citations as I.C. or IC. The Indiana Administrative Code is referred to in short citations as I.A.C. or IAC. See Ind. R. App. P. 22 (2021), https://www.in.gov/courts/rules/appellate/index.html.
Iowa

Supreme Court (Iowa): Cite to N.W. or N.W.2d.
North Western Reporter	1879–date N.W., N.W.2d Iowa Reports (Cite to edition published by Clarke for vols. 1855–1968 Iowa
1–8.)

Greene	1847–1854 Greene

Morris	1839–1846 Morris

Bradford	1838–1841 Bradf.

Court of Appeals (Iowa Ct. App.): Cite to N.W.2d.

North Western Reporter	1977–date  N.W.2d

Statutory compilations: Cite to Iowa Code.

Code of Iowa	Iowa Code § x.x
(<year>)

West’s Iowa Code Annotated	Iowa Code Ann. § x.x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Iowa Acts.

Acts of the State of Iowa	<year> Iowa Acts <page no.>
Iowa Legislative Service (West)	<year> Iowa Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)



149

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Administrative compilation

Iowa Administrative Code	Iowa Admin. Code r. x-
x.x (<year>)

Administrative register

Iowa Administrative Bulletin	<vol. no.> Iowa Admin.
Bull. <page no.> (<month day, year>)
Kansas

Supreme Court (Kan.): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1883–date P., P.2d, P.3d

Kansas Reports	1862–date Kan.

McCahon	1858–1868 McCahon

Court of Appeals (Kan. Ct. App.): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1895–1901 P.

1977–date  P.2d, P.3d

Kansas Court of Appeals Reports	1895–1901 Kan. App.

1977–date  Kan. App. 2d

Statutory compilations: Cite to Kan. Stat. Ann.

Kansas Statutes Annotated	Kan. Stat. Ann. § x-x (<year>)
West’s Kansas Statutes Annotated	Kan. Stat. Ann. § x-x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Kan. Sess. Laws.

Session Laws of Kansas	<year> Kan. Sess. Laws
<page no.>

West’s Kansas Legislative Service	<year> Kan. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)




150

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Administrative compilation


Kansas Administrative Regulations (updated by supplements)
Administrative register

Kansas Register



Local Notes:

Kan. Admin. Regs. § x- x-x (<year>)


<vol. no.> Kan. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)


Kansas Statutes Annotated are cited as K.S.A. xx-xxx. SeeKansas Appellate Practice Handbook, Citation Guide app’x C (2018), https://www.kansasjudicialcouncil.org/ Documents/Appellate%20Practice%20Handbook/Appendix%20C-Revised%202018.pdf
Kentucky

Supreme Court (Ky.): before 1976 the Court of Appeals (Ky.) was the highest state court. Cite to S.W., S.W.2d, or S.W.3d.
South Western Reporter	1886–date S.W., S.W.2d, S.W.3d Kentucky Reports
78 Ky. to 314 Ky.	1879–1951 Ky.

Bush	1866–1879 e.g., 66 Ky. (3 Bush)

Duvall	1863–1866 e.g., 62 Ky. (1 Duv.)

Metcalf	1858–1863 e.g., 58 Ky. (1 Met.)

Monroe, Ben	1840–1857 e.g., 53 Ky. (14 B. Mon.)

Dana	1833–1840 e.g., 35 Ky. (5 Dana)

Marshall, J.J.	1829–1832 e.g., 27 Ky. (4 J.J.
Marsh.)

Monroe, T.B.	1824–1828 e.g., 19 Ky. (3 T.B. Mon.)

Littell	1822–1824 e.g., 13 Ky. (3 Litt.)

Littell’s Selected Cases	1795–1821 e.g., 16 Ky. (1 Litt. Sel.
Cas.)


151

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Marshall, A.K.	1817–1821 e.g., 10 Ky. (3 A.K.
Marsh.)

Bibb	1808–1817 e.g., 6 Ky. (3 Bibb)

Hardin	1805–1808 3 Ky. (Hard.)

Sneed	1801–1805 2 Ky. (Sneed)

Hughes	1785–1801 1 Ky. (Hughes)

Kentucky Opinions	1864–1886 Ky. Op.

Kentucky Law Reporter	1880–1908 Ky. L. Rptr.

Kentucky Appellate Reporter	1994–2000 Ky. App.

Kentucky Attorneys Memo	2001–2007 Ky. Att’y Memo

Kentucky Law Summary	1966–date Ky. L. Summ.

Court of Appeals (Ky. Ct. App.) (for decisions before 1976, see Kentucky Supreme Court): Cite to S.W.2d or S.W.3d.
South Western Reporter	1976–date S.W.2d, S.W.3d

Kentucky Appellate Reporter	1994–2000 Ky. App.

Kentucky Attorneys Memo	2001–2007 Ky. Att’y Memo

Kentucky Law Summary	1966–date Ky. L. Summ.

Statutory compilations: Cite to one of the following codes.

Baldwin’s Kentucky Revised Statutes Annotated (West)	Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. § x.x
(West <year>)


Michie’s Kentucky Revised Statutes Annotated (LexisNexis)
Session laws: Cite to Ky. Acts. Acts of Kentucky

Kentucky Revised Statutes and Rules Service (West)

Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. § x.x (LexisNexis <year>)


<year> Ky. Acts <page no.>
<year> Ky. Rev. Stat. &
R. Serv. <page no.>




152

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

(West)


Michie’s Kentucky Revised Statutes Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)



Administrative compilation

<year>-<pamph. no.> Ky. Rev. Stat. Adv.
Legis. Serv. <page no.> (LexisNexis)



Kentucky Administrative Regulations Service



Administrative register

Administrative Register of Kentucky



Local Notes:

<tit. no.> Ky. Admin. Regs. <rule no.> (<year>)


<vol. no.> Ky. Admin. Reg. <page no.> (<month year>)


The Kentucky Revised Statutes Annotated are cited locally as KRS xx.xxxx. See Ky. R. Civ. P. 76.12(4)(g).
Louisiana

Supreme Court (La.), before 1813 the Superior Court of Louisiana (La.) and the Superior Court of the Territory of Orleans (Orleans): Cite to So., So. 2d, or So. 3d.
Southern Reporter	1886–date So., So. 2d, So. 3d

Louisiana Reports	1901–1972 La.

Louisiana Annual Reports	1846–1900 La. Ann.

Robinson	1841–1846 Rob.

Louisiana Reports	1830–1841 La.

Martin (Louisiana Term Reports)	1809–1830 Mart. (o.s.), Mart. (n.s.)

Court of Appeal (La. Ct. App.): Cite to So., So. 2d, or So. 3d.

Southern Reporter	1928–date So., So. 2d, So. 3d

Louisiana Court of Appeals Reports	1924–1932 La. App.



153

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Peltier’s Decisions, Parish at Orleans	1917–1924 Pelt.

Teissier, Orleans Court of Appeals	1903–1917 Teiss.

Gunby’s Reports	1885	Gunby

McGloin	1881–1884 McGl.

Statutory compilations: Cite to one of the following codes.

West’s Louisiana Statutes Annotated	La. Stat. Ann. § x:x (<year>)
West’s Louisiana Children’s Code Annotated	La. Child. Code Ann. art. x (<year>)
West’s Louisiana Civil Code Annotated	La. Civ. Code Ann. art. x (<year>)
West’s Louisiana Code of Civil Procedure Annotated	La. Code Civ. Proc. Ann.
art. x (<year>)

West’s Louisiana Code of Criminal Procedure Annotated	La. Code Crim. Proc.
Ann. art. x (<year>)

West’s Louisiana Code of Evidence Annotated	La. Code Evid. Ann. art. x (<year>)
West's Louisiana Constitution Annotated	La. Const. Ann. art. x (<year>)
Session laws: Cite to La. Acts.

State of Louisiana: Acts of the Legislature <year> La. Acts <page no.>

West’s Louisiana Session Law Service	<year> La. Sess. Law Serv. <page no.> (West)
Administrative compilation

Louisiana Administrative Code	La. Admin. Code tit. x, § x (<year>)
Administrative register

Louisiana Register	<vol. no.> La. Reg.



154

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Local Notes:
Local practice in Louisiana uses large-and-small caps for statutes: LA. CIV. CODE art. 2315 (2019). For administrative rules, likewise local practice uses large-and-small caps: LA. ADMIN. CODE tit. 51, pt. 1, §105 (2019). See generally Louisiana Citation and Style Manual, 70 La. L. Rev. 1239 (2019), https://digitalcommons.law.lsu.edu/lalrev/vol79/iss4/13/
Louisiana has adopted a public domain citation format for cases after December 31, 1993. See
Rules of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, part G, section 8. The format is:
Examples:

Smith v. Jones, 93-2345 (La. 7/15/94); 650 So.2d 500.

Smith v. Jones, 93-2345 (La. App. 1 Cir. 7/15/94); 660 So.2d 400.

Smith v. Jones, 94-2345, p. 7 (La. 7/15/94); 650 So.2d 500, 504.

Maine

Supreme Judicial Court (Me.): Cite to A., A.2d or A.3d.

Atlantic Reporter	1885–date A., A.2d, A.3d

Maine Reports	1820–1965 Me.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Me. Stat.

West’s Maine Statutes	Me. Stat. tit. x, § x
(<year>)

Maine Revised Statutes Annotated (West)	Me. Rev. Stat. Ann. tit. x, § x (<year>)
Session laws: Cite to Me. Laws.

Laws of the State of Maine	<year> Me. Laws <page no.>
Maine Legislative Service (West)	<year> Me. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)



155

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Administrative compilation

Code of Maine Rules (LexisNexis)	x-x-x Me. Code R. § x (LexisNexis <year>)
Administrative register

Maine Government Register (LexisNexis)	<iss. no.> Me. Gov’t Reg. <page no.> (LexisNexis <month year>)
Local Notes:
Maine has adopted a public domain citation format for cases after December 31, 1996. See Administrative Order of the Supreme Judicial Court—New Citation Form (Aug. 20, 1996); Michael D. Selzinger, Charles K. Leadbetter, and Sara T.S. Wolfe, Uniform Maine Citations (2020-21 ed.), https://digitalcommons.mainelaw.maine.edu/uniform-maine-citations/16/
Examples:

Estate of Hoch v. Stifel, 2011 ME 24, 16 A.3d 137.

Estate of Hoch v. Stifel, 2011 ME 24, ¶ 11, 16 A.3d 137.

Saucier v. State Tax Assessor, 1998 ME 61, 708 A.2d 28.

Maryland

Court of Appeals (Md.): Cite to A., A.2d or A.3d.

Atlantic Reporter	1885–date A., A.2d, A.3d

Maryland Reports	1851–date  Md.

Gill	1843–1851 Gill

Gill and Johnson	1829–1842 G. & J.

Harris and Gill	1826–1829 H. & G.

Harris and Johnson	1800–1826 H. & J.


Harris and McHenry	1770–1774
1780–1799

H. & McH.

156

H. TABLES

Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Court of Special Appeals (Md. Ct. Spec. App.): Cite to A.2d or A.3d. Atlantic Reporter	1967–date A.2d, A.3d
Maryland Appellate Reports	1967–date Md. App.

Statutory compilations: Cite by subject to either Michie’s Md. Code Ann. or West’s Md. Code Ann.
Michie’s Annotated Code of Maryland (LexisNexis)	Md. Code Ann.,
<subject> § x-x (LexisNexis <year>)
West’s Annotated Code of Maryland	Md. Code Ann.,
<subject> § x-x (West
<year>)

Agriculture	Agric.

Business Occupations and Professions	Bus. Occ. & Prof.

Business Regulation	Bus. Reg.

Commercial Law	Com. Law

Constitutions	Const.

Corporations and Associations	Corps. & Ass’ns

Correctional Services	Corr. Servs.

Courts and Judicial Proceedings	Cts. & Jud. Proc.

Criminal Law	Crim. Law

Criminal Procedure	Crim. Proc.

Economic Development	Econ. Dev.

Education	Educ.

Election Law	Elec. Law

Environment	Envir.

Estates and Trusts	Est. & Trusts

Family Law	Fam. Law



157

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Financial Institutions	Fin. Inst.

Health–General	Health–Gen.

Health Occupations	Health Occ.

Housing and Community Development	Hous. & Cmty. Dev.

Human Services	Hum. Servs.

Insurance	Ins.

Labor and Employment	Lab. & Empl.

Land Use	Land Use

Local Government	Local Gov't

Natural Resources	Nat. Res.

Public Safety	Pub. Safety

Public Utility	Pub. Util.

Real Property	Real Prop.

State Finance and Procurement	State Fin. & Proc.

State Government	State Gov’t

State Personnel and Pensions	State Pers. & Pens.

Tax–General	Tax–Gen.

Tax–Property	Tax–Prop.

Transportation	Transp.

Session laws: Cite to Md. Laws.

Laws of Maryland	<year> Md. Laws <page
no.>


Michie’s Annotated Code of Maryland Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)

<year>-<pamph. no.> Md. Code Ann. Adv.
Legis. Serv. <page no.> (LexisNexis)





158

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

West’s Maryland Legislative Service	<year> Md. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Code of Maryland Regulations	Md. Code Regs. <reg. no.> (<year>)
Administrative register

Maryland Register	<vol. no.> Md. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Massachusetts

Supreme Judicial Court (Mass.): Cite to N.E., or N.E.2d, N.E.3d.

North Eastern Reporter	1885–date N.E., N.E.2d, N.E.3d Massachusetts Reports
97 Mass. to date	1867–date Mass.

Allen	1861–1867 e.g., 83 Mass. (1 Allen)

Gray	1854–1860 e.g., 67 Mass. (1 Gray)

Cushing	1848–1853 e.g., 55 Mass. (1 Cush.)

Metcalf	1840–1847 e.g., 42 Mass. (1 Met.)

Pickering	1822–1839 e.g., 18 Mass. (1 Pick.)

Tyng	1805–1822 e.g., 2 Mass. (1 Tyng)

Williams	1804–1805 1 Mass. (1 Will.)

Appeals Court (Mass. App. Ct.): Cite to N.E.2d, N.E.3d.

North Eastern Reporter	1972–date N.E.2d, N.E.3d

Massachusetts Appeals Court Reports	1972–date Mass. App. Ct.

Lower Courts (Mass. Dist. Ct., Bos. Mun. Ct.): Cite to Mass. App. Div., if found there; else cite to Mass. Supp. or Mass. App. Dec.
Reports of Massachusetts	1936–1950 Mass. App. Div.



159

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Appellate Division	1980–date

Massachusetts Reports Supplement	1980–1983 Mass. Supp.

Massachusetts Appellate Decisions	1941–1977 Mass. App. Dec.

Appellate Division Advance Sheets	1975–1979 <year> Mass. App. Div.
Adv. Sh. <page no.>


Statutory compilations: Cite to Mass. Gen. Laws.

General Laws of Massachusetts (Mass. Bar Ass’n/West):
 Mass. Gen. Laws ch.<chapter no.>, § <section no.> (<year> )
Massachusetts General Laws Annotated (West):
 Mass. Gen. Laws Ann. ch.<chapter no.>, § <section no.> (West <year> )
Annotated Laws of Massachusetts (LexisNexis):
 Mass. Ann. Gen. Laws ch. <chapter no.>, § <section no.> (LexisNexis <year> )
Session laws: Cite to Mass. Acts.



Mass. Gen. Laws ch. x, § x (<year>)


Mass. Gen. Laws Ann. ch. x, § x (West <year>)


Mass. Ann. Laws ch. x, § x (LexisNexis <year>)



Acts and Resolves of Massachusetts


Massachusetts Legislative Service (West)


Massachusetts Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)



Administrative compilations: Cite to official Mass. Code Regs. Code of Massachusetts Regulations


Code of Massachusetts Regulations (LexisNexis)

<year> Mass. Acts
<page no.>

<year> Mass. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (West)
<year>-<pamph. no.> Mass. Adv. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (LexisNexis)


<tit. no.> Mass. Code Regs. <sec. no.> (<year>)
<tit. no.> Mass. Code Regs. <sec. no.>



160

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

(LexisNexis <year>)

Administrative register

Massachusetts Register	<iss. no.> Mass. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Local Notes:
The General Laws of Massachusetts are cited in Massachusetts courts as G.L. c. x, § x.
See generally SJC Style Manual (2020), https://www.mass.gov/doc/sjc-style-manual; Trial Court Law Libraries, Massachusetts Legal Writing and Citations, https://www.mass.gov/info
-details/massachusetts-legal-writing-and-citations (last updated August 3, 2020).

Michigan

Supreme Court (Mich.): Cite to N.W. or N.W.2d.

North Western Reporter	1879–date N.W., N.W.2d

Michigan Reports	1847–date Mich.

Douglass	1843–1847 Doug.

Blume, Unreported Opinions	1836–1843 Blume Unrep. Op.

Blume, Supreme Court Transactions	1836–1843 Blume Sup. Ct. Trans.

Court of Appeals (Mich. Ct. App.): Cite to N.W.2d.

North Western Reporter	1965–date N.W.2d

Michigan Appeals Reports	1965–date Mich. App.

Court of Claims (Mich. Ct. Cl.): Cite to Mich. Ct. Cl.

Michigan Court of Claims Reports	1939–1942 Mich. Ct. Cl.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Mich. Comp. Laws.

Michigan Compiled Laws (1979)	Mich. Comp. Laws § x.x (<year>)
Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated (West)	Mich. Comp. Laws Ann.
§ x.x (West <year>)



161

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Michigan Compiled Laws Service (LexisNexis)	Mich. Comp. Laws Serv.
§ x.x (LexisNexis
<year>)


Session laws: Cite to Mich. Pub. Acts.

Public and Local Acts of the Legislature of the State of Michigan



<year> Mich. Pub. Acts
<page no.>

Michigan Legislative Service (West)


Michigan Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)



Administrative compilation

Michigan Administrative Code


Administrative register

Michigan Register



Local Notes:

<year> Mich. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (West)
<year>-<pamph. no.> Mich. Adv. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (LexisNexis)


Mich. Admin. Code r.
x.x (<year>)


<iss. no.> Mich. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)


The Michigan Compiled Laws are customarily cited locally as MCL xxxx.xx. See Michigan Supreme Court Office of the Reporter of Decisions, Michigan Appellate Opinion Manual (rev. Dec. 2017), https://courts.michigan.gov/Courts/MichiganSupremeCourt/Documents
/MiAppOpManual.pdf

Minnesota

Supreme Court (Minn.): Cite to N.W. or N.W.2d.

North Western Reporter	1879–date N.W., N.W.2d

Minnesota Reports	1851–1977 Minn.

Court of Appeals (Minn. Ct. App.): Cite to N.W.2d.

North Western Reporter	1983–date N.W.2d



162

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Statutory compilations: Cite to Minn. Stat.

Minnesota Statutes	Minn. Stat. § x.x
(<year>)

Minnesota Statutes Annotated (West)	Minn. Stat. Ann. § x.x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Minn. Laws.

Laws of Minnesota	<year> Minn. Laws
<page no.>

Minnesota Session Law Service (West)	<year> Minn. Sess. Law Serv. <page no.> (West)
Administrative compilation

Minnesota Rules	Minn. R. <rule no.>
(<year>)

Administrative register

Minnesota State Register	<vol. no.> Minn. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Mississippi

Supreme Court (Miss.): Cite to So., So. 2d, or So. 3d.

Southern Reporter	1886–date So., So. 2d, So. 3d Mississippi Reports
23 Miss. to 254 Miss.	1851–1966 Miss.

Smedes and Marshall	1843–1850 e.g., 9 Miss. (1 S. & M.)

Howard	1834–1843 e.g., 2 Miss. (1 Howard)

Walker	1818–1832 1 Miss. (1 Walker)

Mississippi Decisions	1820–1885 Miss. Dec.

Court of Appeals (Miss. Ct. App.): Cite to So. 2d or So. 3d.




163

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Southern Reporter	1995–date So. 2d, So. 3d

Statutory compilations: Cite to Miss. Code Ann. (published by LexisNexis).

Mississippi Code 1972 Annotated (LexisNexis)	Miss. Code Ann. § x-x-x (<year>)
West’s Annotated Mississippi Code	Miss. Code Ann. § x-x-x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Miss. Laws.

General Laws of Mississippi	<year> Miss. Laws
<page no.>

Mississippi General Laws Advance Sheets (LexisNexis)	<year>-<pamph. no.>
Miss. Laws Adv. Sh.
<page no.> (LexisNexis)

West's Mississippi Legislative Service	<year> Miss. Legis.
Serv. <page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Code of Mississippi Rules (LexisNexis)	<tit. no.>-<ch. no.> Miss. Code R. § x (LexisNexis <year>)
Administrative register

Mississippi Government Register (LexisNexis)	<iss. no.> Miss. Gov’t Reg. <page no.> (LexisNexis <month year>)
Local Notes:
Mississippi has adopted a public domain citation format for cases after July 1, 1997. See Miss.
R. App. P. 28(f), https://courts.ms.gov/research/rules/msrulesofcourt
/Rules%20of%20Appellate%20Procedure%20Current.pdf.
Examples:
Okoloise v. Yost, 2017-CA-01472-SCT (Miss. 2019).




164

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Okoloise v. Yost, 2017-CA-01472-SCT (¶ 30) (Miss. 2019).

Missouri

Supreme Court (Mo.): Cite to S.W., S.W.2d, or S.W.3d.

South Western Reporter	1886–date S.W., S.W.2d, S.W.3d

Missouri Reports	1821–1956 Mo.

Court of Appeals (Mo. Ct. App.): Cite to S.W., S.W.2d, or S.W.3d.

South Western Reporter	1902–date S.W., S.W.2d, S.W.3d

Missouri Appeals Reports	1876–1954 Mo. App.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Mo. Rev. Stat.

Missouri Revised Statutes	Mo. Rev. Stat. § x.x (<year>)
Vernon’s Annotated Missouri Statutes (West)	Mo. Ann. Stat. § x.x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Mo. Laws.

Session Laws of Missouri	<year> Mo. Laws <page no.>
Missouri Legislative Service (West)	<year> Mo. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Missouri Code of State Regulations Annotated	Mo. Code Regs. Ann. tit. x, § x-x.x (<year>)
Administrative register

Missouri Register	<vol. no.> Mo. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Local Notes:
Missouri statutes are cited locally around the following basic template: Section xxx.xxx, RSMo 2016 or § xxx.xxx, RSMo 2016. Missouri Supreme Court cases are generally decided en banc


165

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

and are cited (Mo. banc <year>). The Missouri Court of Appeals is cited locally as “Mo. App.” (omitting the “Ct.” as shown in this Table). Missouri Court of Appeals cases may indicate the district of decision where relevant: (Mo. App. S.D.). See Thomas Patrick Deaton, Jr., Show Me Citations: A Manual for Legal Citations in Missouri Courts (9th ed. 2020) (practitioner- maintained manual), https://www.thomaspatrickdeaton.com/ShowMeCitations2020
-0706.pdf

Montana

Supreme Court (Mont.): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1883–date P., P.2d, P.3d

Montana Reports	1868–date Mont.

State Reporter	1945–date State Rptr.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Mont. Code Ann.

Montana Code Annotated	Mont. Code Ann. § x-x-x (<year>)
West's Montana Code Annotated	Mont. Code Ann. § x-x-x (West <year>)
Session laws

Laws of Montana	<year> Mont. Laws
<page no.>

Administrative compilation

Administrative Rules of Montana	Mont. Admin. R. <rule no.> (<year>)
Administrative register

Montana Administrative Register	<iss. no.> Mont. Admin.
Reg. <page no.> (<month day, year>)
Local Notes:
Montana has adopted a public domain citation format for cases after December 31, 1997. See
Order In re: Opinion Forms and Citation Standards of the Supreme Court of Montana and the



166

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Adoption of Public Domain and Neutral-Format Citation (Dec. 16, 1997); Order In the Matter of Aneding Citation Standards, No. AF-07-0064 (Jan. 22, 2009); Order in the Matter of Amending Citations Standards for the Montana Supreme Court, No. AF 06-0632 (Feb. 24, 2010), https://casetext.com/case/in-re-matter-of-opinion-forms.
Example: Doe v. Roe, 1998 MT 12, ¶¶ 44-45, 286 Mont. 175, 989 P.2d 1312.

Nebraska

Supreme Court (Neb.): Cite to N.W. or N.W.2d.

North Western Reporter	1879–date N.W., N.W.2d

Nebraska Reports	1860–date Neb.

Court of Appeals (Neb. Ct. App.): Cite to N.W.2d.

North Western Reporter	1992–date N.W.2d

Nebraska Appellate Reports	1992–date Neb. App.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Neb. Rev. Stat.

Revised Statutes of Nebraska	Neb. Rev. Stat. § x-x (<year>)
Revised Statutes of Nebraska Annotated (LexisNexis)	Neb. Rev. Stat. Ann. § x-
x (LexisNexis <year>)

West's Revised Statutes of Nebraska Annotated	Neb. Rev. Stat. Ann. § x- x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Neb. Laws.

Laws of Nebraska	<year> Neb. Laws
<page no.>

West's Nebraska Legislative Service	<year> Neb. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Nebraska Administrative Code	<tit. no.> Neb. Admin.
Code § x-x (<year>)

Nevada



167

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Supreme Court (Nev.): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1883–date P., P.2d, P.3d

Nevada Reports	1865–date Nev.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Nev. Rev. Stat.

Nevada Revised Statutes	Nev. Rev. Stat. § x.x
(<year>)

Michie's Nevada Revised Statutes Annotated (LexisNexis)	Nev. Rev. Stat. Ann. §
x.x (LexisNexis <year>)

West’s Nevada Revised Statutes Annotated	Nev. Rev. Stat. Ann. §
x.x (West <year>)

Session laws: Cite to Nev. Stat.

Statutes of Nevada	<year> Nev. Stat. <page
no.>

West’s Nevada Legislative Service	<year> Nev. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Nevada Administrative Code	Nev. Admin. Code § x.x (<year>)
Administrative register

Nevada Register of Administrative Regulations	<vol. no.> Nev. Reg.
Admin. Regs. <reg. no.> (<month day, year>)
New Hampshire

Supreme Court (N.H.): Cite to A., A.2d, or A.3d.

Atlantic Reporter	1885–date A., A.2d, A.3d

New Hampshire Reports	1816–date  N.H.

Statutory compilations: Cite to N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. (published by West).

New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated (West)	N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §


168

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

x:x (<year>)

Lexis New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated	N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. § x:x (LexisNexis <year>)
Session laws: Cite to N.H. Laws or N.H. Legis. Serv.

Laws of the State of New Hampshire (West)	<year> N.H. Laws
<page no.>

New Hampshire Legislative Service (West)	<year> N.H. Legis. Serv.
<page no.>


Lexis New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated <year> Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)



Administrative compilations: Cite to N.H. Code Admin. R. Ann.

New Hampshire Code of Administrative Rules Annotated (LexisNexis)



Code of New Hampshire Rules (LexisNexis)




Administrative registers: Cite to N.H. Rulemaking Reg. New Hampshire Rulemaking Register



New Hampshire Government Register (LexisNexis)




New Jersey

<year>-<pamph. no.>
N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. Adv. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (LexisNexis)


N.H. Code Admin. R. Ann. <dep't name as abbreviated in Rules>
<rule no.> (<year>)

N.H. Code R. <dep't name as abbreviated in Rules> <rule no.> (LexisNexis <year>)


<vol. no.> N.H. Rulemaking Reg. <page no.> (<month day, year>)
<iss. no.> N.H. Gov’t Reg. <page no.> (LexisNexis <month year>)



169

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Supreme Court (N.J.), previously Court of Errors and Appeals (N.J.): Cite to A., A.2d, or A.3d.
Atlantic Reporter	1885–date A., A.2d, A.3d

New Jersey Reports	1948–date N.J.

New Jersey Law Reports	1790–1948 N.J.L.

New Jersey Equity Reports	1845–1948 N.J. Eq.

New Jersey Miscellaneous Reports	1923–1948 N.J. Misc.

Superior Court (N.J. Super. Ct. App. Div., N.J. Super. Ct. Ch. Div., N.J. Super. Ct. Law Div.), previously Court of Chancery (N.J. Ch.), Supreme Court (N.J. Sup.
Ct.), and Prerogative Court (N.J. Prerog. Ct.): Cite to A., A.2d, or A.3d. Atlantic Reporter	1885–date A., A.2d, A.3d
New Jersey Superior Court Reports	1948–date N.J. Super.

New Jersey Law Reports	1790–1948 N.J.L.

New Jersey Equity Reports	1830–1948 N.J. Eq.

New Jersey Miscellaneous Reports	1923–1948 N.J. Misc. County Court (e.g., Essex Cnty. Ct.) and other lower courts: Cite to A.2d. Tax Court (N.J. Tax Ct.): Cite to N.J. Tax.
New Jersey Tax Court Reports	1979–date N.J. Tax

Statutory compilations: Cite to N.J. Stat. Ann.

New Jersey Statutes Annotated (West)	N.J. Stat. Ann. § x:x (West <year>)
New Jersey Revised Statutes (2013)	N.J. Rev. Stat. § x:x (<year>)
Session laws: Cite to N.J. Laws.

Laws of New Jersey	<year> N.J. Laws <page
no.>

New Jersey Session Law Service (West)	<year> N.J. Sess. Law



170

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Serv. <page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

New Jersey Administrative Code (LexisNexis)	N.J. Admin. Code § x:x-
x.x (<year>)

Administrative register

New Jersey Register (LexisNexis)	<vol. no.> N.J. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Administrative report

New Jersey Administrative Reports	1979–date N.J. Admin., N.J. Admin. 2d
Local Notes:
In local practice, the New Jersey Constitution’s name is underlined: N.J. Const. art. <Roman numeral>, § <number>, ¶ <number>. New Jersey Statutes Annotated are cited as N.J.S.A. followed by the relevant section number but no section symbol: N.J.S.A. <section number>. See New Jersey Manual on Style for Judicial Opinions (2017), https://www.njcourts.gov
/attorneys/assets/attyresources/manualonstyle.pdf

New Mexico

Supreme Court (N.M.): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1883–date P., P.2d, P.3d

New Mexico Reports	1852–2012 N.M.

Court of Appeals (N.M. Ct. App.): Cite to P.2d or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1967–date P.2d, P.3d

New Mexico Reports	1967–2012 N.M.

Statutory compilations: Cite to N.M. Stat. Ann.

New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978 (Conway Greene)	N.M. Stat. Ann. § x-x-x
(<year>)

West’s New Mexico Statutes Annotated	N.M. Stat. Ann. § x-x-x



171

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

(West <year>)

Michie's Annotated Statutes of New Mexico (LexisNexis)	N.M. Stat. Ann. § x-x-x
(LexisNexis <year>)

Session laws: Cite to N.M. Laws.

Laws of the State of New Mexico	<year> N.M. Laws
<page no.>


New Mexico Advance Legislative Service (Conway Greene)
West's New Mexico Legislative Service


Administrative compilation

Code of New Mexico Rules (LexisNexis)


Administrative register

New Mexico Register



Local Notes:

<year> N.M. Adv. Legis. Serv. <page no.>
<year> N.M. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (West)


N.M. Code R. § x.x.x.x (LexisNexis <year>)


<vol. no.> N.M. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)


New Mexico has adopted a public domain citation format for cases effective July 1, 2013. See
N.M. Sup. Ct. R. 23-112 (Appendix), available at https://casetext.com/rule/new-mexico-court
-rules/new-mexico-supreme-court-general-rules/rule-23-112-citations-for-pleadings-and
-other-papers/appendix-to-rule-23-112-nmra-technical-and-citation-information. Examples:

Glaser v. LeBus, 2012-NMSC-012, 276 P.3d 959.

Lasen, Inc. v. Tadjikov, 2020-NMCA-006, 456 P.3d 1090.

New York

Court of Appeals (N.Y.): Cite to N.E., N.E.2d, or N.E.3d.




172

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

North Eastern Reporter	1885–date N.E., N.E.2d, N.E.3d


New York Reports (The first series of N.Y. is reprinted in
N.Y.S. and N.Y.S.2d without separate pagination. Do not include a parallel cite to N.Y.S. or N.Y.S.2d in citations to the first series of N.Y.)

1847–date N.Y., N.Y.2d

West’s New York Supplement	1956–date N.Y.S.2d, N.Y.S.3d

Court for the Correction of Errors (N.Y.) and Supreme Court of Judicature (N.Y. Sup. Ct.) (highest state courts of law before 1847): Cite to one of the following reporters.
Lockwood’s Reversed Cases	1799–1847 Lock. Rev. Cas.

Denio’s Reports	1845–1848 Denio

Hill and Denio Supplement (Lalor)	1842–1844 Hill & Den.

Hill’s Reports	1841–1844 Hill

Edmond’s Select Cases	1834–1853 Edm. Sel. Cas.

Yates’ Select Cases	1809	Yates Sel. Cas.

Anthon’s Nisi Prius Cases	1807–1851 Ant. N.P. Cas.

Wendell’s Reports	1828–1841 Wend.

Cowen’s Reports	1823–1829 Cow.

Johnson’s Reports	1806–1823 Johns.

Caines’ Reports	1803–1805 Cai.

Caines’ Cases	1796–1805 Cai. Cas.

Coleman & Caines’ Cases	1794–1805 Cole. & Cai. Cas.

Johnson’s Cases	1799–1803 Johns. Cas.

Coleman’s Cases	1791–1800 Cole. Cas.

Court of Chancery (N.Y. Ch.) (highest state court of equity before 1848): Cite to one of the following reporters.
Edwards’ Chancery Reports	1831–1850 Edw. Ch.



173

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Barbour’s Chancery Reports	1845–1848 Barb. Ch.

Sandford’s Chancery Reports	1843–1847 Sand. Ch.

Saratoga Chancery Sentinel	1841–1847 Sarat. Ch. Sent.

Paige’s Chancery Reports	1828–1845 Paige Ch.

Clarke’s Chancery Reports	1839–1841 Cl. Ch.

Hoffman’s Chancery Reports	1839–1840 Hoff. Ch.

Hopkins’ Chancery Reports	1823–1826 Hopk. Ch.

Lansing’s Chancery Reports	1824–1826 Lans. Ch.

Johnson’s Chancery Reports	1814–1823 Johns. Ch.

New York Chancery Reports Annotated	1814–1847 N.Y. Ch. Ann.

Supreme Court, Appellate Division (N.Y. App. Div.), previously Supreme Court, General Term (N.Y. Gen. Term): Cite to N.Y.S., N.Y.S.2d, or N.Y.S.3d.
West’s New York Supplement	1888–date N.Y.S., N.Y.S.2d, N.Y.S.3d
Appellate Division Reports	1896–date A.D., A.D.2d, A.D.3d

Supreme Court Reports	1874–1896 N.Y. Sup. Ct.

Lansing’s Reports	1869–1873 Lans.

Barbour’s Supreme Court Reports	1847–1877 Barb.

Other lower courts (e.g., N.Y. App. Term, N.Y. Sup. Ct., N.Y. Ct. Cl., N.Y. Civ. Ct.,
N.Y. Crim. Ct., N.Y. Fam. Ct.): Cite to N.Y.S., N.Y.S.2d, or N.Y.S.3d.

West’s New York Supplement	1888–date N.Y.S., N.Y.S.2d, N.Y.S.3d
New York Miscellaneous Reports	1892–date Misc., Misc. 2d

Other lower courts before 1888: Cite to one of the following reporters. Abbott’s New Cases	1876–1894 Abb. N. Cas.
Abbott’s Practice Reports	1854–1875 Abb. Pr., Abb. Pr. (n.s.)




174

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Howard’s Practice Reports	1844–1886 How. Pr., How. Pr. (n.s.)

Statutory compilations: Cite to one of the following sources.


McKinney’s Consolidated Laws of New York Annotated (West)
New York Consolidated Laws Service (LexisNexis)


New York Consolidated Laws Unannotated (LexisNexis)


Abandoned Property Agricultural Conservation Agriculture and Markets Alcoholic Beverage Control Alternative County Government Arts and Cultural Affairs Banking
Benevolent Orders Business Corporation Canal
Civil Practice Law and Rules





Civil Rights Civil Service Commerce
Cooperative Corporations

N.Y. <subject> Law § x (McKinney <year>)
N.Y. <subject> Law § x (Consol. <year>)
N.Y. <subject> Law § x (LexisNexis <year>)
Aband. Prop. Agric. Conserv. Agric. & Mkts. Alco. Bev. Cont. Alt. County Gov’t Arts & Cult. Aff. Banking
Ben. Ord. Bus. Corp. Canal
N.Y. C.P.L.R. <rule no.>
(McKinney <year>) or:
N.Y. C.P.L.R. <rule no.>
(Consol. <year>) Civ. Rights
Civ. Serv. Com.
Coop. Corp.





175

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Correction	Correct.

County	County

Criminal Procedure	Crim. Proc.

Debtor and Creditor	Debt. & Cred.

Domestic Relations	Dom. Rel.

Economic Development	Econ. Dev.

Education	Educ.

Elder	Elder

Election	Elec.

Eminent Domain Procedure	Em. Dom. Proc.

Employers’ Liability	Empl’rs Liab.

Energy	Energy

Environmental Conservation	Envtl. Conserv.

Estates, Powers and Trusts	Est. Powers & Trusts

Executive	Exec.

Financial Services	Fin. Serv.

General Associations	Gen. Ass’ns

General Business	Gen. Bus.

General City	Gen. City

General Construction	Gen. Constr.

General Municipal	Gen. Mun.

General Obligations	Gen. Oblig.

Highway	High.

Indian	Indian

Insurance	Ins.




176

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Judiciary	Jud.

Judiciary Court Acts	Jud. Ct. Acts

Labor	Lab.

Legislative	Legis.

Lien	Lien

Limited Liability Company	Ltd. Liab. Co.

Local Finance	Local Fin.

Mental Hygiene	Mental Hyg.

Military	Mil.

Multiple Dwelling	Mult. Dwell.

Multiple Residence	Mult. Resid.

Municipal Home Rule and Statute of Local Governments	Mun. Home Rule Navigation	Nav.
Not-for-Profit Corporation	Not-for-Profit Corp.

Optional County Government	Opt. Cty. Gov’t

Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation	Parks Rec. & Hist.
Preserv.

Partnership	P’ship

Penal	Penal

Personal Property	Pers. Prop.

Private Housing Finance	Priv. Hous. Fin.

Public Authorities	Pub. Auth.

Public Buildings	Pub. Bldgs.

Public Health	Pub. Health

Public Housing	Pub. Hous.

Public Lands	Pub. Lands


177

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Public Officers	Pub. Off.

Public Service	Pub. Serv.

Racing, Pari-Mutuel Wagering and Breeding	Rac. Pari-Mut. Wag. & Breed.
Railroad	R.R.

Rapid Transit	Rapid Trans.

Real Property	Real Prop.

Real Property Actions and Proceedings	Real Prop. Acts.

Real Property Tax	Real Prop. Tax

Religious Corporations	Relig. Corp.

Retirement and Social Security	Retire. & Soc. Sec.

Rural Electric Cooperative	Rural Elec. Coop.

Second Class Cities	Second Class Cities

Social Services	Soc. Serv.

Soil and Water Conservation Districts	Soil & Water Conserv.
Dist.

State	State

State Administrative Procedure Act	A.P.A.

State Finance	State Fin.

State Printing and Public Documents	State Print. & Pub. Docs.

State Technology	State Tech.

Statutes	Stat.

Surrogate’s Court Procedure Act	Surr. Ct. Proc. Act

Tax	Tax

Town	Town

Transportation	Transp.



178

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Transportation Corporations	Transp. Corp.

Unconsolidated	Unconsol.

Uniform Commercial Code	U.C.C.

Vehicle and Traffic	Veh. & Traf.

Village	Village

Volunteer Ambulance Workers’ Benefit	Vol. Ambul. Workers’ Ben.
Volunteer Firefighters’ Benefit	Vol. Fire. Ben.

Workers’ Compensation	Workers’ Comp.

Uncompiled laws: Cite to one of the following sources. For the user’s convenience, the McKinney’s volume in which the law appears is indicated parenthetically below.
McKinney’s Consolidated Laws	N.Y. <law> § x (McKinney <year>)
Consolidated Laws Service	N.Y. <law> § x (Consol.
<year>)

LexisNexis New York Consolidated Laws Unannotated	N.Y. <law> § x
(LexisNexis <year>)

New York City Civil Court Act (29A)	City Civ. Ct. Act

New York City Criminal Court Act (29A)	City Crim. Ct. Act

Code of Criminal Procedure (11A)	Code Crim. Proc.

Court of Claims Act (29A)	Ct. Cl. Act

Family Court Act (29A)	Fam. Ct. Act

Uniform City Court Act (29A)	Uniform City Ct. Act

Uniform District Court Act (29A)	Uniform Dist. Ct. Act

Uniform Justice Court Act (29A)	Uniform Just. Ct. Act

Session laws: Cite to official N.Y. Laws, if found there; else, cite to N.Y. Sess. Laws.

Laws of New York	<year> N.Y. Laws <page



179

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

no.>


McKinney's Session Laws of New York (West) (McKinney)

<year> N.Y. Sess. Laws
<page no.>

New York Consolidated Laws Service	<year>-<pamph. no.>
N.Y. Consol. Laws Adv.

Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)	Legis. Serv. <page no.> (LexisNexis)

Administrative compilation

Official Compilation of Codes, Rules & Regulations of the State of New York (West)
Administrative register



N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. x, § x (<year>)



New York State Register



Local Notes:

<vol. no.> N.Y. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)


Case-citation formats follow the formats shown in the New York Law Reports Style Manual
(2017 ed., with cumulative updates through 2020), https://www.nycourts.gov/reporter/style
-manual/2017/2017-SM.htm. A few key differences include citing the applicable reporter from the New York Official Reports Service, and indicating the Department of the Appellate Division in the court/year parenthetical for intermediate appellate divisions. A few formatting differences include placing the entire citation in parentheses, placing the year in brackets, and omitting periods from the various citation components.
Examples:
(Brown & Brown, Inc. v Johnson, 25 NY3d 364 [2015]).
(Boss v Am. Express Fin. Advisors, Inc., 15 AD3d 306 [1st Dept 2005]).
Statutory citations also vary significantly from the Uniform System of Citation’s general standards. For example, periods with abbreviations are also often omitted from New York statutory citations in local practice, such as with citing the Civil Practice Laws and Rules are as CPLR xxxx.
North Carolina



180

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Supreme Court (N.C.): Cite to S.E. or S.E.2d.

South Eastern Reporter	1887–date S.E., S.E.2d North Carolina Reports
63 N.C. to date	1868–date N.C.

Phillips’ Equity	1866–1868 62 N.C. (Phil. Eq.)

Phillips’ Law	1866–1868 61 N.C. (Phil.)

Winston	1863–1864 60 N.C. (Win.)

Jones’ Equity (54–59)	1853–1863 e.g., 54 N.C. (1 Jones Eq.)
Jones’ Law (46–53)	1853–1862 e.g., 46 N.C. (1 Jones)

Busbee’s Equity	1852–1853 45 N.C. (Busb. Eq.)

Busbee’s Law	1852–1853 44 N.C. (Busb.)

Iredell’s Equity (36–43)	1840–1852 e.g., 36 N.C. (1 Ired. Eq.)

Iredell’s Law (23–35)	1840–1852 e.g., 23 N.C. (1 Ired.)

Devereux & Battle’s Equity (21–22)	1834–1839 e.g., 21 N.C. (1 Dev. & Bat. Eq.)
Devereux & Battle’s Law (18–20)	1834–1839 e.g., 20 N.C. (3 & 4 Dev. & Bat.)
Devereux’s Equity (16–17)	1826–1834 e.g., 16 N.C. (1 Dev. Eq.)

Devereux’s Law (12–15)	1826–1834 e.g., 12 N.C. (1 Dev.)

Hawks (8–11)	1820–1826 e.g., 8 N.C. (1 Hawks)


Murphey (5–7)	1804–1813
1818–1819

e.g., 5 N.C. (1 Mur.)


Taylor’s North Carolina Term Reports	1816–1818 4 N.C. (Taylor)

Carolina Law Repository	1813–1816 4 N.C. (Car. L. Rep.)

Haywood (2–3)	1789–1806 e.g., 2 N.C. (1 Hayw.)




181

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Conference by Cameron & Norwood	1800–1804 1 N.C. (Cam. & Nor.)

Taylor	1798–1802 1 N.C. (Tay.)

Martin	1778–1797 1 N.C. (Mart.)

Court of Appeals (N.C. Ct. App.): Cite to S.E.2d.

South Eastern Reporter	1968–date S.E.2d

North Carolina Court of Appeals Reports	1968–date N.C. App.

Statutory compilations: Cite to N.C. Gen. Stat. (published by LexisNexis).

General Statutes of North Carolina (LexisNexis)	N.C. Gen. Stat. § x-x (<year>)
West’s North Carolina General Statutes Annotated	N.C. Gen. Stat. Ann. § x- x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to N.C. Sess. Laws.

Session Laws of North Carolina	<year> N.C. Sess. Laws
<page no.>


North Carolina <year> Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)

North Carolina Legislative Service (West)


Administrative compilation

North Carolina Administrative Code (West)



Administrative register

North Carolina Register (LexisNexis)



Local Notes:

<year>-<pamph. no.>
N.C. Adv. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (LexisNexis)

<year> N.C. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)


<tit. no.> N.C. Admin. Code <rule no.> (<year>)


<vol. no.> N.C. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)





182

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

North Carolina has adopted a public domain citation format, effective January 2021. See Supreme Court of North Carolina, Universal Citation for North Carolina Fact Sheet (Nov. 2020), https://www.nccourts.gov/assets/news-uploads/FINAL_fact-sheet_UniversalCitation-
-SCofNC_11182020.pdf?JVPiE5JQ6Yeng5IJ8_a1TzZF6bjdSTgt
Examples:
Crazie Overstock Promotions, LLC v. State, 2021-NCSC-57, 858 S.E.2d 581.
Town of Apex v. Rubin, 2021-NCCOA-187, 858 S.E.2d 387.
North Carolina statutes are cited as N.C.G.S. § xx-xx (year). See generally Supreme Court Office of Administrative Counsel, The Guidebook: Citation, Style, and Usage at the Supreme Court of North Carolina (2019), https://www.nccourts.gov/assets/inline-files/TheGuidebook
_SupremeCourtofNorthCarolina_062019_0.pdf?1lTTY94loM9lL3LuzuIEZ04IbNaxjiSJ; Appellate Rules Committee of the North Carolina Bar Association, A Style Manual for the North Carolina Rules of Appellate Procedure (2021), https://www.ncbar.org/wp-content
/uploads/2021/05/2021-05-13-FINAL-Style-Manual-with-Hyperlinks.pdf.

North Dakota

Supreme Court (N.D.): Cite to N.W. or N.W.2d.

North Western Reporter	1890–date N.W., N.W.2d

North Dakota Reports	1890–1953 N.D.

Supreme Court of Dakota (Dakota): Cite to N.W.

North Western Reporter	1879–1889 N.W.

Dakota Reports	1867–1889 Dakota

Court of Appeals of North Dakota (N.D. Ct. App.): Cite to N.W.2d. North Western Reporter	1987–date N.W.2d Statutory compilations: Cite to N.D. Cent. Code.
North Dakota Century Code (LexisNexis)	N.D. Cent. Code § x-x-x (<year>)
West’s North Dakota Century Code Annotated	N.D. Cent. Code Ann. § x-x-x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to N.D. Laws.


183

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Laws of North Dakota	<year> N.D. Laws
<page no.>


North Dakota Century Code <year> Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)

<year>-<pamph. no.>
N.D. Cent. Code Adv. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (LexisNexis)

West’s North Dakota Legislative Service	<year> N.D. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

North Dakota Administrative Code	N.D. Admin. Code <rule no.> (<year>)
Local Notes:
North Dakota has adopted a public domain citation format for cases after December 31, 1996. See North Dakota Supreme Court Citation Manual (2000), https://www.ndcourts.gov/ supreme-court/citation-manual
Examples:

Smith v. Jones, 1997 ND 15.

Smith v. Jones, 1997 ND 15, 600 N.W.2d 900.

Smith v. Jones, 1997 ND 15, ¶ 21.

Smith v. Jones, 1997 ND 15, ¶ 21, 600 N.W.2d 900.

Ohio

Supreme Court (Ohio): Cite to N.E., N.E.2d, or N.E.3d.

North Eastern Reporter	1885–date N.E., N.E.2d, N.E.3d

Ohio State Reports	1852–date Ohio St., Ohio St. 2d, Ohio St. 3d
Ohio Reports	1821–1851 Ohio

Wilcox’s Condensed Reports	1821–1831 Wilc. Cond. Rep.


184

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Wright	1831–1834 Wright

Ohio Unreported Cases	1809–1899 Ohio Unrep. Cas.

Court of Appeals (Ohio Ct. App.): Cite to N.E., N.E.2d, or N.E.3d.

North Eastern Reporter	1926–date N.E., N.E.2d, N.E.3d

Ohio Appellate Reports	1913–date  Ohio App., Ohio App.
2d, Ohio App. 3d

Ohio Circuit Court Reports	1914–1917  Ohio C.C.

Ohio Courts of Appeals Reports	1916–1922 Ohio Ct. App.

Other law courts: Cite to N.E., N.E.2d, or N.E.3d, if found there; else, cite to another reporter in the following order of preference.
North Eastern Reporter	1926–date N.E., N.E.2d, N.E.3d

Ohio Miscellaneous Reports	1962–2012 Ohio Misc., Ohio Misc.
2d

Ohio Bar Reports	1982–1987 Ohio B.

Ohio Opinions	1934–1982 Ohio Op., Ohio Op. 2d, Ohio Op. 3d
Ohio Law Abstract	1922–1964 Ohio Law Abs.

Ohio Nisi Prius Reports	1903–1934 Ohio N.P., Ohio N.P. (n.s.)
Ohio Decisions	1894–1921 Ohio Dec.

Ohio Decisions, Reprint	1840–1893 Ohio Dec. Reprint

Ohio Circuit Decisions	1885–1923 Ohio Cir. Dec.

Ohio Circuit Court Decisions	1901–1923 e.g., 13-23 Ohio C.C. Dec.
Ohio Circuit Court Reports	1885–1901 Ohio C.C.

Ohio Law Bulletin	1876–1921 Ohio L. Bull.

Ohio Circuit Court Reports, New Series	1903–1917 Ohio C.C. (n.s.)



185

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Ohio Law Reporter	1903–1934 Ohio L.R.

Tappen’s Reports	1816–1819 Tapp. Rep.

Anderson’s Unreported Ohio Appellate Cases	1990	Ohio App. Unrep.

Statutory compilations: Cite to one of the following codes.


Page’s Ohio Revised Code Annotated (LexisNexis):
Ohio Rev. Code Ann. § <section number> (LexisNexis
<year> )

Baldwin’s Ohio Revised Code Annotated (West):
Ohio Rev. Code Ann. § <section number> (West <year>

Ohio Rev. Code Ann. §
x.x (LexisNexis <year>)


Ohio Rev. Code Ann. §
x.x (West <year>)

)

Session laws: Cite to Ohio Laws.

State of Ohio: Legislative Acts Passed and Joint Resolutions Adopted <year> Ohio Laws
<page no.>


Page’s Ohio Legislative Bulletin (LexisNexis)


Baldwin’s Ohio Legislative Service Annotated (West)


Administrative compilation

Baldwin's Ohio Administrative Code (West): Ohio Admin. Code <rule no.> <year>

<year> Ohio Legis. Bull.
<page no.> (LexisNexis)

<year> Ohio Legis. Serv. Ann. <page no.> (West)


Ohio Admin. Code <rule no.> (<year>)

Administrative and executive registers: Cite to one of the following registers.

Baldwin's Ohio Monthly Record	1977–date  Ohio Monthly Rec.
<page no.> (<month year>)
Ohio Government Reports	1965–1976 Ohio Gov’t <page no.> (<month day, year>)
Ohio Department Reports	1914–1964 Ohio Dep’t <page no.> (<month day, year>)



186

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Local Notes:
Extensive guidance and rules are provided by the Supreme Court of Ohio’s Writing Manual: A Guide to Citations, Style, and Judicial Opinion Writing (2d ed. 2013), https://www.supremecourt.ohio.gov/ROD/manual.pdf.
The Ohio Revised Code is customarily cited locally as R.C. § xx.xx. A common local variation of this statutory citation is O.R.C. § xx.xx.The Ohio Court of Appeals is divided into appellate districts that should be indicated parenthetically in the court/year component. Ohio has adopted a public domain citation format for cases decided after April 30, 2002.
Examples:

Bonacorsi v. Wheeling & Lake Erie Ry. Co., 95 Ohio St.3d 314, 2002-Ohio-2220, 767 N.E.2d 707, ¶ 15.

Bowling Green v. Godwin, 110 Ohio St.3d 58, 2006-Ohio-3563, 850 N.E.2d 698, ¶ 13,
fn. 1.

Byer v. Wright, 160 Ohio App.3d 472, 2005-Ohio-1797, 827 N.E.2d 835 (11th Dist.).

Oklahoma

Supreme Court (Okla.): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1890–date P., P.2d, P.3d

Oklahoma Reports	1890–1953 Okla.

Court of Appeals of Indian Territory (Indian Terr.): Cite to S.W. South Western Reporter	1896–1907 S.W.
Indian Territory Reports	1896–1907 Indian Terr.

Court of Criminal Appeals (Okla. Crim. App.), before 1959 Criminal Court of Appeals (Okla. Crim. App.): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d.
Pacific Reporter	1908–date P., P.2d, P.3d

Oklahoma Criminal Reports	1908–1953 Okla. Crim.

Court of Civil Appeals (Okla. Civ. App.): Cite to P.2d or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1971–date  P.2d, P.3d


187

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Statutory compilations: Cite to Okla. Stat.

Oklahoma Statutes (West)	Okla. Stat. tit. x, § x (<year>)
Oklahoma Statutes Annotated (West)	Okla. Stat. Ann. tit. x, § x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Okla. Sess. Laws.

Oklahoma Session Laws (West)	<year> Okla. Sess. Laws
<page no.>

Oklahoma Session Law Service (West)	<year> Okla. Sess. Law Serv. <page no.> (West)
Administrative compilation

Oklahoma Administrative Code	Okla. Admin. Code § x:x-x-x (<year>)
Administrative registers: Cite to one of the following sources.

Oklahoma Register 1983–date	<vol. no.> Okla. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Oklahoma Gazette 1962–1983	<vol. no.> Okla. Gaz.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Local Notes:
Oklahoma has adopted a public domain citation format for cases after May 1, 1997. See Okla. Sup. Ct. R. 1.200(e); Okla. Crim. App. R. 3.5.C(2)(a).
Examples:
MTG Guarnieri Mfg., Inc. v. Clouatre, 2010 OK CIV APP 71, 239 P.3d 202.
Harvell v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., 2006 OK 24, 164 P.3d 1028.

Oregon

Supreme Court (Or.): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d.




188

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Pacific Reporter	1883–date P., P.2d, P.3d

Oregon Reports	1853–date Or.

Court of Appeals (Or. Ct. App.): Cite to P.2d or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1969–date P.2d, P.3d

Oregon Reports, Court of Appeals	1969–date Or. App.

Tax Court (Or. T.C.): Cite to Or. Tax.

Oregon Tax Reports	1962–date Or. Tax

Statutory compilations: Cite to Or. Rev. Stat.

Oregon Revised Statutes	Or. Rev. Stat. § x.x
(<year>)

West’s Oregon Revised Statutes Annotated	Or. Rev. Stat. Ann. § x.x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Or. Laws. When citing statutes repealed during or after 1953, indicate parenthetically the former Or. Rev. Stat. sections.
Oregon Laws and Resolutions	<year> Or. Laws <page no.>
<year> Or. Laws Spec. Sess. <page no.>
<year> Or. Laws Adv. Sh. No. x, <page no.>
West’s Oregon Legislative Service	<year> Or. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Oregon Administrative Rules	Or. Admin. R. <rule no.> (<year>)
Administrative register

Oregon Bulletin	<vol. no.> Or. Bull.
<page no.> (<month



189

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

day, year>)

Local Notes:
Oregon Statutes are locally cited ORS § xxx.xxx.
See generally Oregon Appellate Courts Style Manual (2018), https://www.courts.oregon.gov
/publications/Documents/UpdatedStyleManual2002.pdf

Pennsylvania

Supreme Court (Pa.): Cite to A., A.2d, or A.3d.

Atlantic Reporter	1885–date A., A.2d, A.3d

Pennsylvania State Reports	1845–date Pa.

Monaghan	1888–1890 Monag.

Sadler	1885–1889 Sadler

Walker	1855–1885 Walk.

Pennypacker	1881–1884 Pennyp.

Grant	1814–1863 Grant

Watts and Sergeant	1841–1845 Watts & Serg.

Wharton	1835–1841 Whart.

Watts	1832–1840 Watts

Rawle	1828–1835 Rawle

Penrose and Watts	1829–1832 Pen. & W.

Sergeant and Rawle	1814–1828 Serg. & Rawle

Binney	1799–1814 Binn.

Yeates	1791–1808 Yeates

Addison	1791–1799 Add.

Dallas	1754–1806 Dall.

Alden	1754–1814 Ald.

Superior Court (Pa. Super. Ct.): Cite to A., A.2d, or A.3d.


190

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

For cases decided after December 31, 1998, use the following public domain citation format:
Example:

Jones v. Smith, 1999 PA Super 1


Atlantic Reporter

Pennsylvania Superior Court Reports

1931–date 1895–1997

A., A.2d, A.3d

Pa. Super.

Commonwealth Court (Pa. Commw. Ct.): Cite to A.2d or A.3d.

Atlantic Reporter	1970–date A.2d, A.3d

Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court Reports	1970–1994 Pa. Commw.

Other lower courts: Cite to Pa. D. & C., Pa. D. & C.2d, Pa. D. & C.3d, Pa. D. & C.4th, or Pa.
D. & C.5th. Not all lower court decisions are reproduced in the reporters listed below, and it may be necessary, on occasion, to cite to the legal reporter for an individual county, if available. For a comprehensive list of Pennsylvania county court reports, consult chapter seven, appendix four, Frank Y. Liu et al., Pennsylvania Legal Research Handbook (2008).
Pennsylvania District and County Reports	1918–date  Pa. D. & C., Pa. D. &
C.2d, Pa. D. & C.3d, Pa.
D. & C.4th, Pa. D. & C.5th
Pennsylvania District Reports	1892–1921 Pa. D.

Pennsylvania County Court Reports	1870–1921 Pa. C.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Pa. Cons. Stat. (79 titles). These publications should not be confused with Pa. Code, which is a code of regulations, not of legislation.
Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes	<tit. no.> Pa. Cons. Stat.
§ x (<year>)


Purdon’s Pennsylvania Statutes and Consolidated Statutes Annotated (West)

Session laws: Cite to Pa. Laws. Laws of Pennsylvania

<tit. no.> Pa. Stat. and Cons. Stat. Ann. § x (West <year>)


<year> Pa. Laws <page



191

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

no.>

Purdon’s Pennsylvania Legislative Service (West)	<year> Pa. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Pennsylvania Code (Fry Communications)	<tit. no.> Pa. Code § x.x (<year>)
Administrative register

Pennsylvania Bulletin (Fry Communications)	<vol. no.> Pa. Bull.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Local Notes:
Pennsylvania has a complex system of consolidated and unconsolidated statutes, and may provide a parallel citation to Purdom’s Pennsylvania Statutes Annotated if available. See Order Amending Rule 126 of the Pennsylvania Rules of Appellate Procedure, No. 278 Appellate Procedural Rules Doc., 49 Pa. B. 1335 (March 23, 2019), http://www.pacodeandbulletin.gov/Display/pabull?file=/secure/pabulletin/data/vol49/49-12
/416.html.

Rhode Island

Supreme Court (R.I.): Cite to A., A.2d or A.3d.

Atlantic Reporter	1885–date A., A.2d, A.3d

Rhode Island Reports	1828–1980 R.I.

Statutory compilations: Cite to R.I. Gen. Laws.

General Laws of Rhode Island (LexisNexis)	<tit. no.> R.I. Gen. Laws
§ x-x-x (<year>)

West’s General Laws of Rhode Island Annotated	<tit. no.> R.I. Gen. Laws Ann. § x-x-x (West
<year>)

Session laws: Cite to R.I. Pub. Laws.

Public Laws of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations	<year> R.I. Pub. Laws



192

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

<page no.>


Acts and Resolves of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations

<year> R.I. Acts & Resolves <page no.>

Rhode Island Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)	<year>-<pamph. no.>
R.I. Adv. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (LexisNexis)

West’s Rhode Island Advance Legislative Service	<year> R.I. Adv. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (West)
Administrative compilation

Code of Rhode Island Rules (LexisNexis)	<tit. no.>-<ch. no.> R.I. Code R. § x (LexisNexis
<year>)

Administrative register

Rhode Island Government Register (LexisNexis)	<iss. no.> R.I. Gov’t Reg. <page no.> (LexisNexis <month year>)
South Carolina

Supreme Court after 1868 (S.C.): Cite to S.E. or S.E.2d.

South Eastern Reporter	1887–date S.E., S.E.2d

South Carolina Reports	1868–date S.C.

Court of Appeals (S.C. Ct. App.): Cite to S.E.2d.

South Eastern Reporter	1983–date S.E.2d

South Carolina Reports	1983–date S.C.

Courts of law before 1868: Cite to South Carolina Law Reports (S.C.L.)

Richardson (37–49)	1850–1868 e.g., 37 S.C.L. (3 Rich.)

Strobhart (32–36)	1846–1850 e.g., 32 S.C.L. (1 Strob.)

Richardson (30–31)	1844–1846 e.g., 30 S.C.L. (1 Rich.)



193

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Speers (28–29)	1842–1844 e.g., 28 S.C.L. (1 Speers)

McMullan (26–27)	1840–1842 e.g., 26 S.C.L. (1
McMul.)

Cheves	1839–1840 25 S.C.L. (Chev.)

Rice	1838–1839 24 S.C.L. (Rice)

Dudley	1837–1838 23 S.C.L. (Dud.)

Riley	1836–1837 22 S.C.L. (Ril.)

Hill (19–21)	1833–1837 e.g., 19 S.C.L. (1 Hill)

Bailey (17–18)	1828–1832 e.g., 17 S.C.L. (1 Bail.)

Harper	1823–1824 16 S.C.L. (Harp.)

McCord (12–15)	1821–1828 e.g., 12 S.C.L. (1
McCord)

Nott and McCord (10–11)	1817–1820 e.g., 10 S.C.L. (1 Nott & McC.)
Mill (Constitutional) (8–9)	1817–1818 e.g., 8 S.C.L. (1 Mill)

Treadway (6–7)	1812–1816 e.g., 6 S.C.L. (1 Tread.)

Brevard (3–5)	1793–1816 e.g., 3 S.C.L. (1 Brev.)

Bay (1–2)	1783–1804 e.g., 1 S.C.L. (1 Bay)
Courts of equity before 1868: Cite to South Carolina Equity Reports (S.C. Eq.) Richardson’s Equity (24–35)	1850–1868 e.g., 24 S.C. Eq. (3 Rich.
Eq.)

Strobhart’s Equity (20–23)	1846–1850 e.g., 20 S.C. Eq. (1 Strob.
Eq.)

Richardson’s Equity (18–19)	1844–1846 e.g., 18 S.C. Eq. (1 Rich.
Eq.)

Speers’ Equity	1842–1844 17 S.C. Eq. (Speers Eq.)

McMullan’s Equity	1840–1842 16 S.C. Eq. (McMul. Eq.)



194

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Cheves’ Equity	1839–1840 15 S.C. Eq. (Chev. Eq.)

Rice’s Equity	1838–1839 14 S.C. Eq. (Rice Eq.)

Dudley’s Equity	1837–1838 13 S.C. Eq. (Dud. Eq.)

Riley’s Chancery	1836–1837 12 S.C. Eq. (Ril. Eq.)

Hill’s Chancery (10–11)	1833–1837 e.g., 10 S.C. Eq. (1 Hill Eq.)
Richardson’s Cases	1831–1832 9 S.C. Eq. (Rich. Cas.)

Bailey’s Equity	1830–1831 8 S.C. Eq. (Bail. Eq.)

McCord’s Chancery (6–7)	1825–1827 e.g., 6 S.C. Eq. (1 McCord Eq.)
Harper’s Equity	1824	5 S.C. Eq. (Harp. Eq.)

Desaussure’s Equity (1–4)	1784–1817 e.g., 1 S.C. Eq. (1 Des.
Eq.)

Statutory compilation

Code of Laws of South Carolina 1976 Annotated	S.C. Code Ann. § x-x-x (<year>)
Session laws

Acts and Joint Resolutions, South Carolina	<year> S.C. Acts <page no.>
Administrative compilation: Administrative regulations appear in volumes 1–10 of S.C. Code Ann. This publication should not be confused with the statutory compilation of the same name, which also contains volumes 1–10.

Code of Laws of South Carolina 1976 Annotated: Code of Regulations (West)
Administrative register

South Carolina State Register

S.C. Code Ann. Regs.
<reg no.> (<year>)


<vol. no.> S.C. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)




195

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

South Dakota

Supreme Court (S.D.): Cite to N.W. or N.W.2d.

North Western Reporter	1890–date N.W., N.W.2d

South Dakota Reports	1890–1976 S.D.

Supreme Court of Dakota (Dakota): Cite to N.W.

North Western Reporter	1879–1889 N.W.

Dakota Reports	1867–1889 Dakota

Statutory compilation

South Dakota Codified Laws (West)	S.D. Codified Laws § x- x-x (<year>)
Session laws: Cite to S.D. Sess. Laws.

Session Laws of South Dakota	<year> S.D. Sess. Laws
<ch. x § x> <page no.>

Administrative compilation

Administrative Rules of South Dakota	S.D. Admin. R. <rule no.> (<year>)
Administrative register

South Dakota Register	<vol. no.> S.D. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Local Notes:
The South Dakota Codified Laws are locally cited as SDCL § x-x-x. See SDCL § 2-16-18.
South Dakota has adopted a public domain citation format for cases after December 31, 1996.
See S.D. R. Civ. Pro. § 15-26A-69.1 and S.D. Sup. Ct. R. 10-05.
Example:

JAS Enters., Inc. v. BBS Enters., Inc., 2013 S.D. 54, 835 N.W.2d 117.





196

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Tennessee

Supreme Court (Tenn.): Cite to S.W., S.W.2d, or S.W.3d.

South Western Reporter	1886–date S.W., S.W.2d, S.W.3d Tennessee Reports
60 Tenn. to 225 Tenn.	1872–1972 Tenn.

Heiskell	1870–1874 e.g., 48 Tenn. (1 Heisk.)

Coldwell	1860–1870 e.g., 41 Tenn. (1 Cold.)

Head	1858–1860 e.g., 38 Tenn. (1 Head)

Sneed	1853–1858 e.g., 33 Tenn. (1 Sneed)

Swan	1851–1853 e.g., 31 Tenn. (1 Swan)

Humphreys	1839–1851 e.g., 20 Tenn. (1 Hum.)

Meigs	1838–1839 19 Tenn. (Meigs)

Yerger	1818–1837 e.g., 9 Tenn. (1 Yer.)

Martin & Yerger	1825–1828 8 Tenn. (Mart. & Yer.)

Peck	1821–1824 7 Tenn. (Peck)

Haywood	1816–1818 e.g., 4 Tenn. (1 Hayw.)

Cooke	1811–1814  3 Tenn. (Cooke)

Overton	1791–1815  e.g., 1 Tenn. (1 Overt.)

Court of Appeals (Tenn. Ct. App.): Cite to S.W.2d or S.W.3d.

South Western Reporter	1932–date S.W.2d, S.W.3d

Tennessee Appeals Reports	1925–1971 Tenn. App. Court of Criminal Appeals (Tenn. Crim. App.): Cite to S.W.2d or S.W.3d. South Western Reporter	1967–date S.W.2d, S.W.3d
Tennessee Criminal Appeals Reports	1967–1971 Tenn. Crim. App.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Tenn. Code Ann. (published by LexisNexis).




197

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Tennessee Code Annotated (LexisNexis)	Tenn. Code Ann. § x-x-x (<year>)
West's Tennessee Code Annotated	Tenn. Code Ann. § x-x-x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Tenn. Pub. Acts or Tenn. Priv. Acts.

Public Acts of the State of Tennessee	<year> Tenn. Pub. Acts
<page no.>

Private Acts of the State of Tennessee	<year> Tenn. Priv. Acts
<page no.>


Tennessee Code Annotated Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)



West’s Tennessee Legislative Service


Administrative compilation

Official Compilation Rules & Regulations of the State of Tennessee
Administrative register

Tennessee Administrative Register



Texas

Supreme Court (Tex.): Cite to S.W., S.W.2d, or S.W.3d.

<year>-<pamph. no.> Tenn. Code Ann. Adv. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (LexisNexis)
<year> Tenn. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (West)


Tenn. Comp. R. & Regs.
<rule no.> (<year>)


<vol. no.> Tenn. Admin. Reg. <page no.> (<month year>)


South Western Reporter	1886–date S.W., S.W.2d, S.W.3d

Texas Reports	1846–1962 Tex.


Synopses of the Decisions of the Supreme Court of Texas Arising from Restraints by Conscript and Other Military Authorities (Robards)

1862–1865 Robards (no vol.
number)




198

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation


Texas Law Review (containing previously unpublished cases from the 1845 term)

1845–1846 65 Tex. L. Rev.

Digest of the Laws of Texas (Dallam’s Opinions)	1840–1844 Dallam (no vol.
number)

Texas Supreme Court Journal	1957–date Tex. Sup. Ct. J.

Court of Criminal Appeals (Tex. Crim. App.), previously Court of Appeals (Tex. Ct. App.): Cite to S.W., S.W.2d, or S.W.3d.
South Western Reporter	1892–date S.W., S.W.2d, S.W.3d

Texas Criminal Reports	1892–1962 Tex. Crim.

Texas Court of Appeals Reports	1876–1892 Tex. Ct. App.


Condensed Reports of Decisions in Civil Causes in the Court of Appeals (White & Willson vol. 1) (Willson vols. 2–4)

1876–1883 White & W. Willson 1883–1892

Commission of Appeals (Tex. Comm’n App.): Cite to S.W. or S.W.2d. South Western Reporter	1886–1892 S.W.
1918–1945 S.W.2d


Texas Reports

1879–1892
1918–1945

Tex.



Texas Unreported Cases (Posey)

Condensed Reports of Decisions in Civil Causes in the Court of Appeals (White & Willson)

1879–1884 Posey

1879–1883 White & W.

Courts of Appeals (Tex. App.), previously Courts of Civil Appeals (Tex. Civ. App.):
Cite to S.W., S.W.2d, or S.W.3d.

South Western Reporter	1892–date S.W., S.W.2d, S.W.3d

Texas Civil Appeals Reports	1892–1911 Tex. Civ. App.

Consult Texas-specific citation guides for historical subsequent history when citing opinions of the Commission of Appeals from 1879 to 1892. For additional information on the history and structure of Texas courts and on local citation rules, the following sources are suggested: Texas Law Review Ass’n, The Greenbook: Texas Rules of Form (14th ed. 2018); Lydia M.V. Brandt,


199

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Texas Legal Research (1995); and A Reference Guide to Texas Law and Legal History (Karl T. Gruben & James E. Hambleton eds., 2d ed. 1987).
Statutory compilations: Texas is nearing the completion of a recodification of its laws. Cite to the new subject-matter Tex. Code Ann., if found there; else, cite to Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat. Ann. or to one of the independent codes contained in the series Vernon’s Texas Civil Statutes or Vernon’s Texas Statutes Annotated. Note that the independent codes are not part of the new subject-matter Tex. Code Ann.
Vernon’s Texas Codes Annotated (West)	Tex. <Subject> Code Ann. § x (West <year>)
Vernon’s Texas Revised Civil Statutes Annotated (West)	Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat. Ann.
art. x, § x (West <year>)


Vernon’s Texas Business Corporation Act Annotated (West)
Vernon’s Texas Code of Criminal Procedure Annotated (West)

Vernon’s Texas Insurance Code Annotated (West)


Vernon’s Texas Probate Code Annotated (West) (repealed)




Texas Subject-Matter Codes

Agriculture Alcoholic Beverage
Business and Commerce

Business Organizations (effective Jan. 1, 2006) Civil Practice and Remedies

Tex. Bus. Corp. Act Ann. art. x (West <year>)
Tex. Code Crim. Proc. Ann. art. x (West
<year>)

Tex. Ins. Code Ann. art. x (West <year>)
Tex. Prob. Code Ann. § x (West <year>)
(Note this independent code has been repealed as of 2014)


Agric. Alco. Bev.
Bus. & Com. Bus. Orgs.
Civ. Prac. & Rem.




200

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Education	Educ.

Election	Elec.

Estates	Est.

Family	Fam.

Finance	Fin.

Government	Gov’t

Health and Safety	Health & Safety

Human Resources	Hum. Res.

Insurance	Ins.

Labor	Lab.

Local Government	Loc. Gov’t

Natural Resources	Nat. Res.

Occupations	Occ.

Parks and Wildlife	Parks & Wild.

Penal	Penal

Property	Prop.

Special District Local Laws	Spec. Dists.

Tax	Tax

Transportation	Transp.

Utilities	Util.

Water	Water

Session laws: Cite to Tex. Gen. Laws.

General and Special Laws of the State of Texas	<year> Tex. Gen. Laws
<page no.>

Vernon’s Texas Session Law Service (West)	<year> Tex. Sess. Law Serv. <page no.> (West)



201

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Laws of the Republic of Texas	<year> Repub. Tex.
Laws <page no.>

Session laws passed before 1941 must be cited according to the exact title, e.g., Tex. Loc. & Spec. Laws, Tex. Gen. & Spec. Laws, and Tex. Gen. Laws. The Revised Statutes were enacted and published separately in 1879, 1895, 1911, and 1925 and should be cited as <year> Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat. xxx. The Code of Criminal Procedure and Penal Code were enacted and published separately in 1856, 1879, 1895, 1911, and 1925 and should be cited as <year> Tex. Crim. Stat. xxx.
Administrative compilation

Texas Administrative Code (West)	<tit. no.> Tex. Admin.
Code § x.x (<year>)

Administrative register

Texas Register (LexisNexis)	<vol. no.> Tex. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Local Notes:
See generally The Greenbook, Texas Rules of Form (14th ed. 2018).At the intermediate appellate level, the Texas courts are divided into regional intermediate appellate districts. Customary local practice for Texas intermediate appellate citations is as follows: <case name>, <vo.> S.W. 2d <page> (Tex. App.—<name of intermediate appellate district> <year>). The Houston appellate district has two numbered districts and thus also includes either [1st Dist.] or [14th Dist.]. Customary local practice also includes subsequent history in the citation parenthetical. See The Greenbook: Texas Rules of Form (14th 2018).
Example:
Titan Oil & Gas Consultants, LLC v. Willis, 614 S.W.3d 261 (Tex. App.—Texarkana 2020, pet. filed).
Utah

Supreme Court (Utah): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1881–date P., P.2d, P.3d

Utah Reports	1873–1974 Utah, Utah 2d



202

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Court of Appeals (Utah Ct. App.): Cite to P.2d or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1987–date P.2d, P.3d

Statutory compilations: Cite to one of the following codes.

Utah Code Annotated (LexisNexis)	Utah Code Ann. § x-x-x (LexisNexis <year>)
West’s Utah Code Annotated	Utah Code Ann. § x-x-x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Utah Laws.

Laws of Utah	<year> Utah Laws
<page no.>


Utah Code <year> Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)

Utah Legislative Service (West)


Administrative compilation

Utah Administrative Code


Administrative register

Utah State Bulletin



Local Notes:

<year>-<pamph. no.> Utah Adv. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (LexisNexis)

<year> Utah. Legis. Serv. <page no.> (West)


Utah Admin. Code r. x- x-x (<year>)


<iss. no.> Utah Bull.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)


Utah has adopted a public domain citation format for cases after December 31, 1998. See Utah App R. 24(f). Include parallel citations to the Pacific Reporter where available.
Include parallel citations to the Utah Advanced Reports (if possible) when no citation to the Pacific Reporter is available.






203

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Examples:

Smith v. Jones, 1999 UT 16.

Smith v. Jones, 1999 UT App 16.

Smith v. Jones, 1999 UT 16, 380 Utah Adv. Rep. 24.

Smith v. Jones, 1999 UT App 16, 380 Utah Adv. Rep. 24.

Smith v. Jones, 1999 UT 16, 998 P.2d 250.

Smith v. Jones, 1999 UT App 16, 998 P.2d 250.

Vermont

Supreme Court (Vt.): Cite to A., A.2d or A.3d.

Atlantic Reporter	1885–date A., A.2d, A.3d

Vermont Reports	1826–date Vt.

Aikens	1825–1828 Aik.

Chipman, D.	1789–1824 D. Chip.

Brayton	1815–1819 Brayt.

Tyler	1800–1803 Tyl.

Chipman, N.	1789–1791 N. Chip.
Statutory compilations: Cite to Vt. Stat. Ann. (published by LexisNexis), if found there Vermont Statutes Annotated (LexisNexis)	Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. x, § x
(<year>)

West’s Vermont Statutes Annotated	Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. x, § x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Vt. Acts & Resolves.

Acts and Resolves of Vermont	<year> Vt. Acts & Resolves <page no.>



204

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Vermont <year> Advance Legislative Service(LexisNexis)	<year>-<pamph. no.>
Vt. Adv. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (LexisNexis)

West’s Vermont Legislative Service	<year> Vt. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Code of Vermont Rules (LexisNexis)	<tit. no.>-<ch. no.> Vt.
Code R. § x (<year>)

Administrative register

Vermont Government Register (LexisNexis)	<iss. no.> Vt. Gov’t Reg.
<page no.> (LexisNexis
<month year>)

Local Notes:
Vermont Statutes Annotated are cited locally as xx V.S.A. § xx. See 1 V.S.A. § 51.
Vermont has adopted a public domain citation format for cases after December 31, 2002. See
Vt. R. App. P. 28.2.
Example: Smith v. Jones, 2001 VT 1, ¶ 12, 169 Vt. 203, 850 A.2d 421.

Virginia

Supreme Court (Va.), previously Supreme Court of Appeals (Va.): Cite to S.E. or S.E.2d.
South Eastern Reporter	1887–date S.E., S.E.2d Virginia Reports
75 Va. to date	1880–date Va.

Grattan	1844–1880 e.g., 42 Va. (1 Gratt.)

Robinson	1842–1844 e.g., 40 Va. (1 Rob.)

Leigh	1829–1842 e.g., 28 Va. (1 Leigh)

Randolph	1821–1828 e.g., 22 Va. (1 Rand.)

Gilmer	1820–1821 21 Va. (Gilmer)



205

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Munford	1810–1820 e.g., 15 Va. (1 Munf.)

Hening & Munford	1806–1810 e.g., 11 Va. (1 Hen. & M.)

Call	1779–1825 e.g., 5 Va. (1 Call)

Virginia Cases, Criminal	1789–1826 e.g., 3 Va. (1 Va. Cas.)

Washington	1790–1796 e.g., 1 Va. (1 Wash.)

Court of Appeals (Va. Ct. App.): Cite to S.E.2d.

South Eastern Reporter	1985–date S.E.2d

Virginia Court of Appeals Reports	1985–date Va. App.

Circuit Court (Va. Cir. Ct.): Cite to Va. Cir.

Virginia Circuit Court Opinions	1957–date Va. Cir.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Va. Code Ann. (published by LexisNexis).

Code of Virginia 1950 Annotated (LexisNexis)	Va. Code Ann. § x-x (<year>)
West’s Annotated Code of Virginia	Va. Code Ann. § x-x (West <year>)

Session laws: Cite to Va. Acts.

Acts of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia



<year> Va. Acts <page no.>

Virginia <year> Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)



West’s Virginia Legislative Service


Administrative compilation

Virginia Administrative Code (West)


Administrative register

<year>-<pamph. no.> Va. Adv. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (LexisNexis)

<year> Va. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)


<tit. no.> Va. Admin. Code § x-x-x (<year>)





206

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Virginia Register of Regulations (LexisNexis)	<vol. no.> Va. Reg. Regs. <page no.> (<month day, year>)
Washington

Supreme Court (Wash.): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1880–date P., P.2d, P.3d

Washington Reports	1889–date Wash., Wash. 2d

Washington Territory Reports	1854–1888 Wash. Terr.

Court of Appeals (Wash. Ct. App.): Cite to P.2d or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1969–date P.2d, P.3d

Washington Appellate Reports	1969–date Wash. App.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Wash. Rev. Code.

Revised Code of Washington	Wash. Rev. Code § x.x.x (<year>)
West's Revised Code of Washington Annotated	Wash. Rev. Code Ann. §
x.x.x (West <year>)

Annotated Revised Code of Washington (LexisNexis)	Wash. Rev. Code Ann. §
x.x.x (LexisNexis
<year>)

Session laws: Cite to Wash. Sess. Laws.

Session Laws of Washington	<year> Wash. Sess.
Laws <page no.>

West’s Washington Legislative Service	<year> Wash. Legis.
Serv. <page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Washington Administrative Code	Wash. Admin. Code § x- x-x (<year>)
Administrative register



207

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Washington State Register	<iss. no.> Wash. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Local Notes:
Locally, the state code is often cited RCW xx.xx.xx. See generally Official Reporter of Decisions, Style Sheet, Washington Courts (July 3, 2018), https://www.courts.wa.gov
/appellate_trial_courts/supreme/?fa=atc_supreme.style.

West Virginia

Supreme Court of Appeals (W. Va.): Cite to S.E. or S.E.2d.

South Eastern Reporter	1886–date S.E., S.E.2d

West Virginia Reports	1864–date W. Va.

West Virginia Intermediate Court of Appeals (W. Va. Ct. App.)


(Pending as of June 2022; check the court’s website for citation information.)
Statutory compilations: Cite to W. Va. Code. West Virginia Code

Michie’s West Virginia Code Annotated (LexisNexis)


West’s Annotated Code of West Virginia


Session laws: Cite to W. Va. Acts. Acts of the Legislature of West Virginia

West Virginia <year> Advance Legislative Service (LexisNexis)

West’s West Virginia Legislative Service

2022-date






W. Va. Code § x-x-x (<year>)
W. Va. Code Ann. § x-x- x (LexisNexis <year>)
W. Va. Code Ann. § x-x- x (West <year>)


<year> W. Va. Acts
<page no.>

<year>-<pamph. no.>
W. Va. Adv. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (LexisNexis)

<year> W. Va. Legis. Serv. <page no.>




208

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Administrative compilation

West Virginia Code of State Rules	W. Va. Code R. § x-x-x (<year>)
Administrative register

West Virginia Register	<vol. no.> W. Va. Reg.
<page no.> (<month day, year>)
Wisconsin

Supreme Court (Wis.): Cite to N.W. or N.W.2d.

North Western Reporter	1879–date N.W., N.W.2d

Wisconsin Reports	1853–date Wis., Wis. 2d

Pinney	1839–1852 Pin.

Chandler	1849–1852 Chand.

Burnett	1842–1843 Bur.

Burnett (bound with session laws for Dec. 1841)	1841	Bur.

Court of Appeals (Wis. Ct. App.): Cite to N.W.2d.

North Western Reporter	1978–date N.W.2d

Wisconsin Reports	1978–date Wis. 2d

Statutory compilations: Cite to Wis. Stat.

Wisconsin Statutes	Wis. Stat. § x.x (<year>)

West’s Wisconsin Statutes Annotated	Wis. Stat. Ann. § x.x (West <year>)
Session laws: Cite to Wis. Sess. Laws.

Wisconsin Session Laws	<year> Wis. Sess. Laws
<page no.>

West’s Wisconsin Legislative Service	<year> Wis. Legis. Serv.
<page no.> (West)



209

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Administrative compilation

Wisconsin Administrative Code	Wis. Admin. Code
<agency abbreviation> § x-x (<year>)
Administrative register

Wisconsin Administrative Register	<iss. no.> Wis. Admin.
Reg. <page no.> (<month day, year>)
Local Notes:
Wisconsin has adopted a public domain citation format for cases decided after December 31, 1999. See Wis. Sup. Ct. R. 80, https://www.wicourts.gov/sc/scrule/DisplayDocument.pdf
?content=pdf&seqNo=146082.
Examples:

Smith v. Jones, 2000 WI 14, ¶ 6.

Smith v. Jones, 214 Wis. 2d 408, ¶ 12.

Doe v. Roe, 2001 WI App 9, ¶ 17.

Doe v. Roe, 595 N.W.2d 346, ¶ 27.

Wyoming

Supreme Court (Wyo.): Cite to P., P.2d, or P.3d.

Pacific Reporter	1883–date P., P.2d, P.3d

Wyoming Reports	1870–1959 Wyo.

Statutory compilations: Cite to Wyo. Stat. Ann. (published by LexisNexis).

Wyoming Statutes Annotated (LexisNexis)	Wyo. Stat. Ann. § x-x-x (<year>)
West’s Wyoming Statutes Annotated	Wyo. Stat. Ann. § x-x-x (West <year>)



210

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Session laws: Cite to Wyo. Sess. Laws.

Session Laws of Wyoming	<year> Wyo. Sess. Laws
<page no.>

West’s Wyoming Legislative Service	<year> Wyo. Legis.
Serv. <page no.> (West)

Administrative compilation

Code of Wyoming Rules (LexisNexis)	<tit. no.>-<ch. no.> Wyo. Code R. § x (LexisNexis <year>)
Administrative register

Wyoming Government Register (LexisNexis)	<iss. no.> Wyo. Gov’t Reg. <page no.> (LexisNexis <month year>)
Local Notes:
Wyoming has adopted a public domain citation format for cases decided after December 31, 2003. See Order Amending Citation Format (Aug. 19, 2005). Parallel citations are optional.
Examples:

Doe v. Roe, 2001 WY 12.

Doe v. Roe, 2001 WY 12, 989 P.2d 1312 (2001).

American Samoa

High Court of American Samoa (Am. Samoa): Cite to Am. Samoa, Am. Samoa 2d, or Am. Samoa 3d.
American Samoa Reports	1900–date Am. Samoa, Am. Samoa 2d, Am. Samoa 3d
Statutory compilation

American Samoa Code Annotated	Am. Samoa Code Ann. § x (<year>)


211

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Administrative compilation

American Samoa Administrative Code	Am. Samoa Admin. Code § x (<year>)
Canal Zone

United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana (E.D. La.): This court has jurisdiction over litigation pending as of Apr. 1, 1982, in the United States District Court for the District of the Canal Zone. Cite to F. Supp.
Federal Supplement	1982–1983 F. Supp.

United States District Court for the District of the Canal Zone (D.C.Z.): This court ceased to exist on Mar. 31, 1982. Cite to F. Supp.
Federal Supplement	1946–1982 F. Supp. Statutory compilation
Panama Canal Code	C.Z. Code tit. x, § x
(<year>)

Guam

Supreme Court of Guam (Guam):
The Supreme Court of Guam uses a public domain format as shown here. A parallel citation may be included.

Example:

Santos v. Carney, 1997 Guam 4.

Santos v. Carney, 1997 Guam 4, 1997 WL 460435.

District Court of Guam (D. Guam): Cite to F. Supp., F. Supp. 2d, or F. Supp. 3d.

Federal Supplement	1951–date F. Supp., F. Supp. 2d, F. Supp. 3d
Guam Reports	1955–1980 Guam

Statutory compilation




212

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Guam Code Annotated	<tit. no.> Guam Code
Ann. § x (<year>)

Session laws

Guam Session Laws	Guam Pub. L. <law no.>
(<year>)


Administrative compilation

Administrative Rules & Regulations of the Government of Guam
Navajo Nation



<tit. no.> Guam Admin.
R. & Regs. § x (<year>)


Supreme Court (Navajo), previously Court of Appeals (Navajo): Cite to Navajo Rptr. Navajo Reporter	1969–date Navajo Rptr.
District Court (Navajo D. Ct.): Cite to Navajo Rptr.

Navajo Reporter	1969–date Navajo Rptr.

Statutory compilation

Navajo Nation Code Annotated (West)	Navajo Nation Code Ann. tit. x, § x (<year>)
Northern Mariana Islands

The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands has adopted a public domain citation format.
Example:

ABC Company vs. XYZ Company, 2001 MP 1 ¶ 10.

See Northern Mariana Islands Supreme Court Style Manual (Jan. 1, 2017), http://cnmilaw.org
/pdf/courtrules/R26.pdf.

Supreme Court (N. Mar. I.): Cite to N. Mar. I.

Northern Mariana Islands Reporter	1989–date N. Mar. I.

District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands, Trial and Appellate Divisions (D. N. Mar. I. and D. N. Mar. I. App. Div.), and Commonwealth Superior Court (N.


213

The Indigo Book


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Mar. I. Commw. Super. Ct.), previously Commonwealth Trial Court (N. Mar. I. Commw. Trial Ct.): Cite to F. Supp., F. Supp. 2d, or F. Supp. 3d.
Federal Supplement	1979–date F. Supp., F. Supp. 2d, F. Supp. 3d
Northern Mariana Islands Commonwealth Reporter	1979–date N. Mar. I. Commw. Statutory compilation

Northern Mariana Islands Commonwealth Code (LexisNexis)
Session laws

Northern Mariana Islands Session Laws


Administrative compilation

Northern Mariana Islands Administrative Code



Administrative register

Northern Mariana Islands Commonwealth Register



Oklahoma Native Americans

<tit. no.> N. Mar. I. Code § x (<year>)


<year> N. Mar. I. Pub.
L. <law no.>


<tit. no.> N. Mar. I. Admin. Code § x (<year>)


<vol. no.> N. Mar. I. Reg. <page no.> (<month day, year>)


Tribal Courts, Courts of Indian Offenses (Appellate Division), Courts of Indian Appeals, and Courts of Indian Offenses: Cite to Okla. Trib.
Oklahoma Tribal Court Reports	1979–2009 Okla. Trib.

Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico has adopted a public domain citation format for cases decided after December 31, 1997. The format is:

Example: Yumac Home Furniture v. Caguas Lumber Yard, 2015 TSPR 148.





214

H. TABLES


Category	Dates	Abbreviation

Supreme Court (P.R.): Cite to P.R. or P.R. Offic. Trans., if found there; else, cite to P.R. Dec. or P.R. Sent., in that order of preference.
Puerto Rico Reports	1899–1978 P.R.


Official Translations of the Opinions of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico
Decisiones de Puerto Rico

1978–date


1899–date

P.R. Offic. Trans.


P.R. Dec.



Sentencias del Tribunal Supremo de Puerto Rico

Circuit Court of Appeals (P.R. Cir.): Cite to T.C.A

1899–1902 P.R. Sent.



Decisiones del Tribunal de Circuito de Apelaciones de Puerto Rico
Statutory compilation

Laws of Puerto Rico Annotated (LexisNexis)


Leyes de Puerto Rico Anotadas (LexisNexis)


Session laws

Laws of Puerto Rico


Leyes de Puerto Rico (LexisNexis)


Virgin Islands

All courts: Cite to V.I. Virgin Islands Reports Statutory compilation
Virgin Islands Code Annotated (LexisNexis)


Session laws: Cite to V.I. Sess. Laws. Session Laws of the Virgin Islands

1995–date




















1917–date


1962–date

T.C.A.



P.R. Laws Ann. tit. x, § x (<year>)
P.R. Leyes An.tit. x, § x (<year>)


<year> P.R. Laws <page no.>
<year> P.R. Leyes
<page no.>




V.I.


V.I. Code Ann. tit. x, § x- x <year>


<year> V.I. Sess. Laws


215

The Indigo Book



T4 Required Abbreviations for Services

T4.1 Service Publisher Names


T4.2 Service Abbreviations
For each looseleaf service title, the appropriate abbreviation is followed by the name of the publisher.



216

H. TABLES


Service Name	Abbreviation

Affirmative Action Compliance Manual for Federal Contractors	Aff. Action Compl. Man.
(BL)

AIDS Law & Litigation Reporter	AIDS L. & Litig. Rep. (Univ. Pub. Group)
All States Tax Guide	All St. Tax Guide (RIA)

American Federal Tax Reports, Second Series	A.F.T.R.2d (RIA)

American Stock Exchange Guide	Am. Stock Ex. Guide (CCH)
Antitrust & Trade Regulation Report	Antitrust & Trade Reg.
Rep. (BL)

Aviation Law Reporter	Av. L. Rep. (CCH)
? bound as Aviation Cases	Av. Cas. (CCH)
BL’s Banking Report	Banking Rep. (BL)

Bankruptcy Court Decisions	Bankr. Ct. Dec. (LRP)

Bankruptcy Law Reports	Bankr. L. Rep. (CCH)

Benefits Review Board Service	Ben. Rev. Bd. Serv. (MB)

BioLaw	BioLaw (LexisNexis)

Blue Sky Law Reporter	Blue Sky L. Rep. (CCH)

Board of Contract Appeals Decisions—see Contract Appeals Decisions
Business Franchise Guide	Bus. Franchise Guide (CCH)
Canadian Commercial Law Guide	Can. Com. L. Guide (CCH)
Canadian Tax Reporter	Can. Tax Rep. (CCH)

Chemical Regulation Reporter	Chem. Reg. Rep. (BL)

Chicago Board Options Exchange Guide	Chicago Bd. Options Ex.
Guide (CCH)


217

The Indigo Book


Service Name	Abbreviation

Collective Bargaining Negotiations & Contracts	Collective Bargaining Negot. & Cont. (BL)
Collier Bankruptcy Cases, Second Series	Collier Bankr. Cas. 2d (MB)
Commodity Futures Law Reporter	Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH)
Communications Regulation	Commc’ns Reg. (BL)

Congressional Index	Cong. Index (CCH)

Consumer Credit Guide	Consumer Cred. Guide (CCH)
Consumer Product Safety Guide	Consumer Prod. Safety Guide (CCH)
Contract Appeals Decisions	Cont. App. Dec. (CCH)
? bound as Board of Contract Appeals Decisions	B.C.A. (CCH)
Contracts Cases, Federal—see Government Contracts Reporter

Copyright Law Decisions	Copyright L. Dec. (CCH)

Copyright Law Reporter	Copyright L. Rep. (CCH)

Cost Accounting Standards Guide	Cost Accounting Stand.
Guide (CCH)

The Criminal Law Reporter	Crim. L. Rep. (BL)

Daily Labor Report	Daily Lab. Rep. (BL)

Dominion Tax Cases	Dominion Tax Cas.
(CCH)

EEOC Compliance Manual	EEOC Compl. Man. (BL)

EEOC Compliance Manual	EEOC Compl. Man. (CCH)
Employee Benefits Cases	Empl. Benefits Cas. (BL)

Employee Benefits Compliance Coordinator	Empl. Coordinator (RIA)


218

H. TABLES


Service Name	Abbreviation


Employment Practices Guide
? bound as Employment Practices Decisions? bound assee also Labor Law Reporter

Empl. Prac. Dec. (CCH)

Employment Safety and Health Guide	Empl. Safety & Health Guide (CCH)
? bound as Occupational Safety and Health Decisions	O.S.H. Dec. (CCH)
Employment Testing: Law & Policy Reporter	Empl. Testing (Univ.
Pub. Am.)

Energy Management & Federal Energy Guidelines	Energy Mgmt. (CCH)

Environment Reporter	Env’t Rep. (BL)
? bound as Environment Reporter Cases	Env’t Rep. Cas. (BL)
Environmental Law Reporter	Env’t L. Rep. (Env’t Law Inst.)
Exempt Organizations Reports	Exempt Org. Rep. (CCH)

Fair Employment Practice Cases—see Labor Relations Reporter

The Family Law Reporter	Fam. L. Rep. (BL)

Family Law Tax Guide	Fam. L. Tax Guide (CCH)

Federal Audit Guides	Fed. Audit Guide (CCH)

Federal Banking Law Reporter	Fed. Banking L. Rep. (CCH)
Federal Carriers Reports	Fed. Carr. Rep. (CCH)
? bound as Federal Carriers Cases	Fed. Carr. Cas. (CCH)
Federal Contracts Report	Fed. Cont. Rep. (BL)

Federal Election Campaign Financing Guide	Fed. Election Camp. Fin.
Guide (CCH)

Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Reporter	Fed. Energy Reg.
Comm’n Rep. (CCH)

Federal Estate and Gift Tax Reporter	Fed. Est. & Gift Tax Rep.


219

The Indigo Book


Service Name	Abbreviation

(CCH)
? bound as Standard Federal Tax Reporter	Stand. Fed. Tax Rep. (CCH)
Federal Excise Tax Reporter	Fed. Ex. Tax Rep. (CCH)

Federal Income, Gift and Estate Taxation	Fed. Inc. Gift & Est. Tax’n (MB)
Federal Rules Service, Second Series	Fed. R. Serv. 2d (West)

Federal Securities Law Reporter	Fed. Sec. L. Rep. (CCH)

Federal Tax Coordinator Second	Fed. Tax Coordinator 2d (RIA)
Federal Tax Guide Reports	Fed. Tax Guide Rep. (CCH)
Fire & Casualty Cases—see Insurance Law Reports

Food Drug Cosmetic Law Reporter	Food Drug Cosm. L. Rep. (CCH)
Government Contracts Reporter	Gov’t Cont. Rep. (CCH)
? bound as Contracts Cases, Federal	Cont. Cas. Fed. (CCH)


Government Employee Relations Report (ceased publication November 2017)

Gov’t Empl. Rel. Rep. (BL)

Housing & Development Reporter	Hous. & Dev. Rep. (RIA)

Human Resources Management OSHA Compliance Guide	OSHA Comp. Guide
(CCH)

Immigration Law Service	Immigr. L. Serv. (West)

Insurance Law Reports	Ins. L. Rep. (CCH)
? bound as Personal and Commercial Liability	Personal and Comm.
Liab. (CCH)
? bound as Life, Health & Accident Insurance Cases 2d	Life Health & Accid. Ins.
Cas. 2d (CCH)



220

H. TABLES


Service Name	Abbreviation

International Environment Reporter	Int’l Env’t Rep. (BL)

International Trade Reporter	Int’l Trade Rep. (BL)

IRS Positions	IRS Pos. (CCH)

Labor Arbitration Awards	Lab. Arb. Awards (CCH)

Labor Law Reporter	Lab. L. Rep. (CCH)
? bound as Labor Cases	Lab. Cas. (CCH)
? bound as NLRB Decisions	NLRB Dec. (CCH)
see also Employment Practices Guid

Labor Relations Reporter:	Lab. Rel. Rep. (BL)
? bound as Fair Employment Practice Cases	Fair Empl. Prac. Cas. (BL)
? bound as Labor Arbitration Reports	Lab. Arb. Rep. (BL)
? bound as Labor Relations Reference Manual	L.R.R.M. (BL)
? bound as Wage and Hour Cases	Wage & Hour Cas. (BL) ABA/Bloomberg Law Lawyers’ Manual on Professional Conduct	Laws. Man. on Prof.
Conduct (ABA/BL)

Life, Health & Accident Insurance Cases—see Insurance Law Reports
Liquor Control Law Reporter	Liquor Cont. L. Rep. (CCH)
Media Law Reporter	Media L. Rep. (BL)

Medical Devices Reporter	Med. Devices Rep. (CCH)

Medicare and Medicaid Guide	Medicare & Medicaid Guide (CCH)
Mutual Funds Guide	Mut. Funds Guide (CCH)

National Reporter on Legal Ethics & Professional Responsibility	Nat’l Rep. Legal Ethics
(Univ. Pub. Am.)



221

The Indigo Book


Service Name	Abbreviation

New York Stock Exchange Guide	N.Y.S.E. Guide (CCH)

NLRB Decisions—see Labor Law Reporter

Nuclear Regulation Reporter	Nuclear Reg. Rep. (CCH)

Occupational Safety & Health Reporter	O.S.H. Rep. (BL)
? bound as Occupational Safety & Health Cases	O.S.H. Cas. (BL)
OFCCP Federal Contract Compliance Manual	OFCCP Fed. Cont. Compl. Man. (CCH)
Patent, Trademark & Copyright Journal	Pat. Trademark & Copyright J. (BL)
Pension & Benefits Reporter	Pens. & Ben. Rep. (BL)

Pension Plan Guide	Pens. Plan Guide (CCH)

Pension & Profit Sharing Second	Pens. & Profit Sharing 2d (RIA)
Product Safety & Liability Reporter	Prod. Safety & Liab. Rep. (BL)
Products Liability Reporter	Prod. Liab. Rep. (CCH)

Public Utilities Reports	Pub. Util. Rep. (PUR)

School Law Reporter	School L. Rep. (Educ.
Law Ass’n.)

Search & Seizure Bulletin	Search & Seizure Bull. (Quinlan)
SEC Accounting Rules	SEC Accounting R.
(CCH)

Secured Transactions Guide	Secured Transactions Guide (CCH)
Securities and Federal Corporate Law Report	Sec. & Fed. Corp. L. Rep. (West)
Securities Regulation & Law Report	Sec. Reg. & L. Rep. (BL)



222

H. TABLES


Service Name	Abbreviation

Shipping Regulation	Shipping Reg. (BL)

Social Security Reporter	Soc. Sec. Rep. (CCH)

Standard Federal Tax Reporter	Stand. Fed. Tax Rep. (CCH)
? bound as U.S. Tax Cases	U.S. Tax Cas. (CCH)
State and Local Tax Service	St. & Loc. Tax Serv. (RIA)

State and Local Taxes—see All States Tax Guide

State Inheritance, Estate, and Gift Tax Reporter	St. Inher., Est. & Gift Tax Rep. (CCH)
State Tax Guide	St. Tax Guide (CCH)

State Tax Reporter	St. Tax Rep. (CCH)

Tax Court Memorandum Decisions	T.C.M. (RIA)
? bound as Tax Court Reporter	T.C.M. (CCH) [or (RIA)]
Tax Court Reported Decisions	Tax Ct. Rep. Dec. (RIA)

Tax Court Reports	Tax Ct. Rep. (CCH)

Trade Regulation Reporter	Trade Reg. Rep. (CCH)
? bound as Trade Cases	Trade Cas. (CCH)
Unemployment Insurance Reporter	Unempl. Ins. Rep. (CCH) Uniform Commercial Code Reporting Service Second	UCC Rep. Serv. (West) Union Labor Report Newsletter	Union Lab. Rep. Newsl.
(BL)


The United States Law Week (published by Bloomberg Law, which need not be indicated in the service citation)

U.S.L.W.

The United States Patents Quarterly bound in same name	U.S.P.Q. (BL),
U.S.P.Q.2d (BL)

U.S. Tax Cases—see Federal Estate and Gift Tax Reporter and Standard Federal Tax Reporter



223

The Indigo Book



T5 Required Abbreviations for Legislative Documents
Words not on this list that are more than six letters may be abbreviated for clarity and if the chosen abbreviation is not ambiguous. All articles and prepositions should be removed from the abbreviated title if the remaining title content still provides clear document identification.



224

H. TABLES



T6. Required Abbreviations for Treaty Sources
Editor’s note: Refer to Table T6 in the first edition of The Indigo Book for treaty abbreviations, checking the applicable jurisdiction(s) for updates since 2016.

T7. Required Abbreviations for Arbitral Reporters
Editor’s note: Refer to Table T7 in the first edition of The Indigo Book for abbreviations of arbitral reporters, checking the applicable jurisdiction(s) for updates since 2016.





225

The Indigo Book

T8. Required Abbreviations for Intergovernmental Organizations Editor’s note: Refer to Table T8 in the first edition of The Indigo Book for abbreviations of intergovernmental organizations, checking the applicable jurisdiction(s) for updates since 2016.

T9. Required Abbreviations for Court Names
Court Name	Abbreviation

Administrative Court	Admin. Ct.

Admiralty [Court, Division]	Adm.

Aldermen’s Court	Alder. Ct.

Appeals Court	App. Ct.

Appellate Court	App. Ct.

Appellate Department	App. Dep’t

Appellate Division	App. Div.


Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals

ASBCA

Bankruptcy Appellate Panel	B.A.P.

Bankruptcy [Court, Judge]	Bankr.

Board of Contract Appeals	B.C.A.

Board of Immigration Appeals	B.I.A.


Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences

B.P.A.I.

Board of Tax Appeals	B.T.A.

Borough Court	<Name> Bor. Ct.

Business Court	Bus. Ct.

Central District	C.D.

Chancery [Court, Division]	Ch.

Children’s Court	Child. Ct.




226

H. TABLES


Court Name	Abbreviation

Circuit Court (old federal)	C.C.

Circuit Court (state)	Cir. Ct. Circuit Court of Appeals (federal)	Cir.
Circuit Court of Appeals (state)	Cir. Ct. App. City Court	<Name> City Ct.
Civil Appeals	Civ. App.

Civil Court of Record	Civ. Ct. Rec.

Civil District Court	Civ. Dist. Ct.

Claims Court	Cl. Ct.

Commerce Court	Comm. Ct.

Commission	Comm’n

Common Pleas	C.P. <when appropriate, name county or similar subdivision>
Commonwealth Court	Commw. Ct.

Conciliation Court	Concil. Ct.

County Court	<Name> Cnty. Ct. [could also use Cty. Ct.]
County Judge’s Court	Cnty. J. Ct.
[could also use Cty. J. Ct.]

Court	Ct.

Court of Appeal (English)	C.A.

Court of Appeals (federal)	Cir.

Court of Appeal[s] (state)	Ct. App. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces C.A.A.F. Court of Civil Appeals	Civ. App.
Court of Claims	Ct. Cl.


227

The Indigo Book


Court Name	Abbreviation

Court of Common Pleas	Ct. Com. Pl.

Court of Criminal Appeals	Crim. App. Court of Customs and Patent Appeals	C.C.P.A. Court of Customs Appeals	Ct. Cust. App.
Court of Errors	Ct. Err.

Court of Errors and Appeals	Ct. Err. & App.

Court of Federal Claims	Fed. Cl.

Court of [General, Special] Sessions	Ct. <Gen. or Spec.> Sess. Court of International Trade	Ct. Int’l Trade
Court of Military Appeals	C.M.A.

Court of Military Review	C.M.R.

Court of Special Appeals	Ct. Spec. App.

Court of Veterans Appeals	Ct. Vet. App.

Criminal Appeals	Crim. App.

Criminal District Court	Crim. Dist. Ct.

Customs Court	Cust. Ct.

District Court (federal)	D.

District Court (state)	Dist. Ct.

District Court of Appeal[s]	Dist. Ct. App.

Division	Div.

Domestic Relations Court	Dom. Rel. Ct.

Eastern District	E.D.

Emergency Court of Appeals	Emer. Ct. App.

Equity [Court, Division]	Eq.

Family Court	Fam. Ct.




228

H. TABLES


Court Name	Abbreviation

High Court	High Ct.

Judicial District	Jud. Dist.

Judicial Division	Jud. Div. Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation J.P.M.L. Justice of the Peace’s Court	J.P. Ct.
Juvenile Court	Juv. Ct.

Land Court	Land Ct.

Law Court	Law Ct.

Law Division	Law Div.

Magistrate Division	Magis. Div.

Magistrate’s Court	Magis. Ct.

Middle District	M.D.

Municipal Court	<Name> Mun. Ct.

Northern District	N.D.

Orphans’ Court	Orphans’ Ct.

Parish Court	<Name> Parish Ct.

Patent Trial and Appeal Board	P.T.A.B.

Police Justice’s Court	Police J. Ct.

Prerogative Court	Prerog. Ct.

Probate Court	Prob. Ct.

Public Utilities Commission	P.U.C.

Real Estate Commission	Real Est. Comm’n

Recorder’s Court	Rec’s Ct.

Southern District	S.D.


Special Court Regional Rail Reorganization Act

Reg’l Rail Reorg. Ct.



229

The Indigo Book


Court Name	Abbreviation

Superior Court	Super. Ct.

Supreme Court (federal)	U.S.

Supreme Court (other)	Sup. Ct. Supreme Court, Appellate Division	App. Div. Supreme Court, Appellate Term	App. Term Supreme Court of Errors	Sup. Ct. Err.
Supreme Judicial Court	Sup. Jud. Ct.

Surrogate’s Court	Sur. Ct.

Tax Appeal Court	Tax App. Ct.

Tax Court	T.C.

Teen Court	Teen Ct.

Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals Temp. Emer. Ct. App. Territorial, Territory	Terr.
Trademark Trial and Appeal Board	T.T.A.B. Traffic Court	Traffic Ct.
Tribal Court	<Name> Tribal Ct.

Tribunal	Trib.

Water Court	Water Ct.

Western District	W.D.

Workmen’s Compensation Division	Workmen’s Comp. Div. Youth Court	Youth Ct.

T10. Required Abbreviations for Titles of Judges and Officials



230

H. TABLES



T11. Required Abbreviations for Case Names in Citations, Periodical Titles, and Institutional Authors (Common Words)
This table collects the abbreviations for various common words found in case names and periodical titles, as well as author names for institutional authors. Note that Table T15 provides abbreviations for specific institutional names in periodical titles. When in doubt, the specifics in Table T15 control the periodical title control over the general common-word abbreviations found here.




231

The Indigo Book

Using the common-word abbreviations in this table, here are examples of each: Sample case name: Smith v. Detroit Fed’n of Teachers, Local 231
Sample periodical title: Cardozo Arts & Ent. L.J. Sample institutional author: Fed. Jud. Ctr.
In case names and periodical titles, words can be pluralized by adding “s” to the abbreviation (Dep’ts, Exchs.) Possessive words are indicated with ’s after the abbreviation when singular (Mfr.’s ) and with ’ after the abbreviation when plural (Mfrs.’). Other words of eight letters or more may be abbreviated to save significant space, if the abbreviation is clear.
In case names, well-known acronyms can be abbreviated as such per Rule 11.2.19. Abbreviations already in periodical titles should be maintained as such (whether well-known or not) such as “NALP Bulletin” (which is the title of that publication).
In periodical titles, omit the words “a,” “at,” “in,” “of,” and “the.” If a title contains a single word after one of these short omitted words, do not abbreviate the next word. For example, “Journal of Construction” would become “J. Construction” (despite the abbreviation “Const.” in this table.) Omit words after a colon in a periodical title. Periodical titles have additional institution-specific and geographical abbreviations shown in Table T12 and T15.




232

H. TABLES



Common Word in a Case Name, Periodical Title, Institutional Author Name


Abbreviation

Amendment	Amend.

America, American	Am.

and	&

Annual	Ann.

Appellate	App.

Arbitration, Arbitrator	Arb.

Artificial Intelligence	A.I.

Associate	Assoc.

Association	Ass’n

Atlantic	Atl.

Attorney	Att’y

Authority	Auth.

Automobile, Automotive	Auto.

Avenue	Ave.

Bankruptcy	Bankr.

Behavior, Behavioral	Behav.

Board	Bd.

Broadcaster, Broadcasting	Broad.

Brotherhood	Bhd.

Brothers	Bros.

Building	Bldg.

Business, Businesses	Bus.

Capital	Cap.

Casualty, Casualties	Cas.

Catholic	Cath.


233

The Indigo Book



Common Word in a Case Name, Periodical Title, Institutional Author Name


Abbreviation

Center, Centre	Ctr.

Central	Cent.

Chemical	Chem.

Children	Child.

Chronicle	Chron.

Circuit	Cir.

Coalition	Coal.

College	Coll.

Commentary	Comment.

Commission	Comm’n

Commissioner	Comm’r

Committee	Comm.

Communication	Commc’n

Community	Cmty.

Company	Co.

Comparative	Compar.

Compensation	Comp.

Computer, Computing, Computational	Comput.

Condominium	Condo.

Conference	Conf.

Congress, Congressional	Cong.

Consolidated	Consol.

Construction	Constr.

Contemporary	Contemp.

Continental	Cont’l


234

H. TABLES



Common Word in a Case Name, Periodical Title, Institutional Author Name


Abbreviation

Contract	Cont.

Conveyance, Conveyancer	Conv.

Cooperation, Cooperative	Coop.

Corporate, Corporation	Corp.

Corrections, Correctional	Corr.

Cosmetic	Cosm.

Counselor, Counselors, Counselor’s, Counseling	Couns.


County
(Note: the traditional and, we submit, recommended abbreviation is Cty.)

Cnty.


Defend, Defender, Defense, Defensive	Def.

Delinquent, Delinquency	Delinq.

Department	Dep’t

Detention	Det.

Developer, Development	Dev.

Digest	Dig.

Digital	Digit.


Diplomacy
(Optional: may also use with variations Diplomat and Diplomatic.)

Dipl.


Director	Dir.

Discount	Disc.

Dispute	Disp.

Distributor, Distributing, Distribution	Distrib.

District	Dist.

Division	Div.

Doctor	Dr.


235

The Indigo Book



Common Word in a Case Name, Periodical Title, Institutional Author Name


Abbreviation

East, Eastern	E.

Economic, Economical, Economics, Economy	Econ.

Editor, Editorial	Ed.

Educate, Education, Educating, Educational, Educator	Educ.

Electric, Electrical, Electricity, Electronic	Elec.

Employee, Employer, Employment	Emp.

Enforcement	Enf’t

Engineer	Eng’r

Engineering	Eng’g

English	Eng.

Enterprise	Enter.

Entertainment	Ent.

Environment, Environmental	Env’t

Equality	Equal.

Equipment	Equip.

Estate	Est.

Examiner	Exam’r

Exchange	Exch.

Executive	Exec.

Executor, Executrix	Ex’[r, x]

Exploration, Exploratory	Expl.

Exporter, Exportation	Exp.

Faculty	Fac.

Federal	Fed.

Federation	Fed’n


236

H. TABLES



Common Word in a Case Name, Periodical Title, Institutional Author Name


Abbreviation

Fidelity	Fid.

Finance, Financial, Financing	Fin.

Fortnightly	Fort.

Forum	F.

Foundation	Found.

General	Gen.

Global	Glob.

Government	Gov’t

Group	Grp.

Guaranty, Guarantor	Guar.

Hispanic	Hisp.

Historical, History	Hist.

Hospital	Hosp.

Hospitality	Hosp.

Housing	Hous.

Human	Hum.

Import, Importer, Importation	Imp.

Incorporated	Inc.

Indemnity	Indem.

Independence, Independent	Indep.

Industry, Industries, Industrial	Indus.

Inequality	Ineq.

Information	Info.

Institute, Institution	Inst.

Insurance	Ins.


237

The Indigo Book



Common Word in a Case Name, Periodical Title, Institutional Author Name


Abbreviation

Intellectual	Intell.


Intelligence
(But use A.I. for Artificial Intelligence.)

Intel.


Interdisciplinary	Interdisc.

Interest	Int.

International	Int’l

Investment, Investor	Inv.

Journal, Journals	J.

Judicial	Jud.

Juridicial	Jurid.

Jurisprudence	Juris.

Justice	Just.

Juvenile	Juv.

Labor	Lab.


Laboratory
(Note: the traditional and, we submit, recommended abbreviation is Lab.)

Lab’y Lab.

Law (unless it is the the first word, in which case do not abbreviate)	L. Lawyer	Law.
Legislate, Legislation, Legislative	Legis.

Liability	Liab.

Library, Librarian	Libr.

Limited	Ltd.

Litigation	Litig.

Local	Loc.

Machine, Machinery	Mach.


238

H. TABLES



Common Word in a Case Name, Periodical Title, Institutional Author Name


Abbreviation

Magazine	Mag.

Maintenance	Maint.

Management	Mgmt.

Manufacturer	Mfr.

Manufacturing	Mfg.

Maritime	Mar.

Market	Mkt.

Marketing	Mktg.

Matrimonial	Matrim.

Mechanic, Mechanical	Mech.

Medical, Medicinal, Medicine	Med.

Memorial	Mem’l

Merchant, Merchandise, Merchandising	Merch.

Metropolitan	Metro.

Military	Mil.

Mineral	Min.

Modern	Mod.

Mortgage	Mortg.

Municipal, Municipality	Mun.

Mutual	Mut.

National	Nat’l

Nationality	Nat’y

Natural	Nat.

Negligence	Negl.

Negotiation, Negotiator	Negot.


239

The Indigo Book



Common Word in a Case Name, Periodical Title, Institutional Author Name


Abbreviation

Newsletter	Newsl.

North, Northern	N.

Northeast, Northeastern	Ne.

Northwest, Northwestern	Nw.

Number	No.

Office, Official	Off.

Opinion	Op.

Order	Ord.

Organization, Organizing	Org.

Pacific	Pac.

Parish	Par.

Partnership	P’ship

Patent	Pat.

Person, Personal, Personnel	Pers.

Perspective	Persp.

Pharmaceutic, Pharmaceutical	Pharm.

Philosophical, Philosophy	Phil.

Planning	Plan.

Policy	Pol’y

Politic, Political, Politics	Pol.

Practical, Practice, Practitioner	Prac.

Preserve, Preservation	Pres.

Privacy, Private	Priv.

Probate, Probation	Prob.

Problems	Probs.


240

H. TABLES



Common Word in a Case Name, Periodical Title, Institutional Author Name


Abbreviation

Proceedings, Procedure	Proc.

Product, Production	Prod.


Profession, Professional
(Note: Consider maintaining the more traditional “Prof.” or “Prof’l” rather than “Pro.” in context.) See Table T15, which prioritizes “Prof.” for specific periodical titles.)

Pro.

Property	Prop.

Protection	Prot.

Psychological, Psychologist, Psychology	Psych.

Public	Pub.

Publication	Publ’n

Publishing	Publ’g

Quarterly	Q.

Railroad	R.R.

Railway	Ry.

Record	Rec.

Referee	Ref.

Refining, Refinement	Refin.

Regional	Reg’l

Register	Reg.

Regulation, Regulator, Regulatory	Regul.

Rehabilitation, Rehabilitative	Rehab.

Relation	Rel.


Report, Reporter
(Optional: disregard and do not abbreviate Reporter, as traditionally it has not been abbreviated. See, e.g., Reporters Comm. for Freedom of the Press)

Rep.



241

The Indigo Book



Common Word in a Case Name, Periodical Title, Institutional Author Name


Abbreviation

Reproduction, Reproductive	Reprod.

Research	Rsch.

Reservation, Reserve	Rsrv.

Resolution	Resol.

Resource, Resources	Res.

Responsibility	Resp.

Restaurant	Rest.

Retirement	Ret.

Review, Revista	Rev.

Rights	Rts.

Road	Rd.

Savings	Sav.

School	Sch.

Science, Scientific	Sci.

Scottish	Scot.

Secretary	Sec’y

Security, Securities	Sec.

Sentencing	Sent’g

Service	Serv.

Shareholder, Stockholder	S’holder

Social	Soc.

Society	Soc’y

Sociological, Sociology	Socio.

Solicitor	Solic.

Solution	Sol.


242

H. TABLES



Common Word in a Case Name, Periodical Title, Institutional Author Name


Abbreviation

South, Southern	S.

Southeast, Southeastern	Se.

Southwest, Southwestern	Sw.

Statistic, Statistics, Statistical	Stat.

Steamship, Steamships	S.S.

Street	St.

Studies	Stud.

Subcommittee	Subcomm.

Supreme Court	Sup. Ct.

Surety	Sur.

System, Systems	Sys.

Taxation	Tax’n

Teacher	Tchr.

Technical, Technique, Technological, Technology	Tech.

Telecommunication	Telecomm.

Telephone, Telegraph	Tel.

Temporary	Temp.

Township	Twp.

Transcontinental	Transcon.

Transnational	Transnat’l

Transport, Transportation	Transp.

Tribune	Trib.

Trust, Trustee	Tr.

Turnpike	Tpk.

Uniform	Unif.


243

The Indigo Book



T12. Required Abbreviations for Geographical Terms

T12.1. U.S. States, Cities and Territories
Abbreviations for states, cities, and territories are provided below. Note that abbreviations for city names may also be composed from state name abbreviations. For example, “Kansas City” should be shortened to “Kan. City.”




244

H. TABLES




245

The Indigo Book




246

H. TABLES



T12.2 Australian States and Canadian Provinces and Territories


247

The Indigo Book



T12.3 Countries and Regions


248

H. TABLES




249

The Indigo Book




250

H. TABLES




251

The Indigo Book




252

H. TABLES




253

The Indigo Book




254

H. TABLES




255

The Indigo Book




256

H. TABLES



T13. Required Abbreviations for Document Subdivisions



257

The Indigo Book




258

H. TABLES



T14. Required Abbreviations for Explanatory Phrases
If a phrase is followed a case name as the direct object, such as reversing <x>, the comma should be omitted.




259

The Indigo Book




260

H. TABLES



T15. Required Abbreviations for Institutional Names in Periodical Titles
These abbreviations are required, but may be replaced by a periodical’s own preferred abbreviated title.
Related tables are Table T11 with common words and Table T12 with geographical abbreviations.



261

The Indigo Book


Institution Name	Abbreviation

California (California Law Review only)	Calif.

Capital	Cap.

Chapman	Chap.

Chartered Life Underwriters	C.L.U.

Cincinnati	Cin.

City University of New York	CUNY

Cleveland	Clev.

Columbia	Colum.

Cumberland	Cumb.

Denver	Denv.

Detroit	Det.

Dickinson	Dick.

Duquesne	Duq.

East, Eastern	E.

Foreign Broadcast Information Service	F.B.I.S.

George Mason	Geo. Mason

George Washington	Geo. Wash.

Georgetown	Geo.

Gonzaga	Gonz.

Harvard	Harv.

Howard	How.

John Marshall	J. Marshall


Journal of the American Medical Association (see also American Medical Association, supra)

JAMA

Judge Advocate General, Judge Advocate General’s	JAG




262

H. TABLES


Institution Name	Abbreviation

Las Vegas	L.V.

Lawyer's Reports Annotated	L.R.A.

Loyola	Loy.

Marquette	Marq.

Melbourne	Melb.

Memphis	Mem.

New England	New Eng.

New York University, New York University School of Law	N.Y.U. North, Northern	N.
Northeast, Northeastern	Ne.

Northwest, Northwestern	Nw.

Pepperdine	Pepp.

Pittsburgh	Pitt.

Richmond	Rich.

Rocky Mountain Mineral Law Institute	Rocky Mtn. Min. L. Inst.

Saint Louis	St. Louis

San Fernando Valley	San Fern. V.

Southeast, Southeastern	Se.

South, Southern	S.

Southern Methodist University	SMU

Southwest, Southwestern	Sw.

Stanford	Stan.

Temple	Temp.

Thomas Jefferson	T. Jefferson

Thomas M. Cooley	T.M. Cooley




263

The Indigo Book



T16. Required Abbreviations for Publishing Terms



264

H. TABLES



T17. Required Abbreviations for Month Names



265

The Indigo Book



T18. Abbreviations for Litigation Documents
This table provides abbreviations that may be used (or modified to fit local rules or custom). This table also notates words that should not be abbreviated when used in the title of a litigation document. Add “s” to make a plural.




266

H. TABLES


Attachment	Attach.

Attorney	Att’y

Brief	Br.

Certiorari	Cert.

Civil	Civ.

Compel	Compel

Counterclaim	Countercl.

Court	Ct.

Cross-claim	Cross-cl.

Declaration	Decl.

Defendant, Defendant’s	Def., Def.’s Defendants, Defendants’	Defs., Defs.’ Demurrer	Dem.
Deny, Denying	Den.

Deposition	Dep.

Discovery	Disc.

Dismiss	Dismiss

Docket	Docket

Evidence	Evid.

Exhibit	Ex.

Grant	Grant

Hearing	Hr’g

Injunction	Inj.

Instruction	Instr.

Interrogatory	Interrog.

Joint Appendix	J.A.




267

The Indigo Book


Judgment	J.

Limine	Lim.

Memorandum	Mem.

Minute	Min.

Motion	Mot.

Objection	Obj.

Opinion	Op.

Opposition	Opp’n

Order	Order

Petition	Pet.

Petitioner, Petitioner’s	Pet’r, Pet’r’s Petitioners, Petitioners’	Pet’rs, Pet’rs’ Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s	Pl., Pl.’s
Plaintiffs, Plaintiffs’	Pls., Pls.’

Points and Authorities	P. & A.

Preliminary	Prelim.

Produce, Production	Produc.

Quash	Quash

Reconsideration	Recons.

Record	R.

Rehearing	Reh’g

Reply	Reply

Report and Recommendation R. & R. Reporter	Rep.
Request	Req.

Respondent	Resp’t




268

H. TABLES



T19 Cross-References for Academic Legal Documents
As noted in Rule R1, The Indigo Book provides citation formats for standard legal documents. This table provides examples of converting these citations to the general format used for academic legal documents. Academic legal documents generally place citation in footnotes.
Standard legal documents more often use in-text citations but may be formatted with footnotes; either way, the citation format for standard legal documents is recommended. This chart is intended as a helpful illustration of key differences. A full treatment of citations in academic legal documents is beyond the scope of The Indigo Book.




269

The Indigo Book



Hearing	Protecting Federal Judiciary
Employees from Sexual Harassment,


Protecting Federal Judiciary Employees from Sexual Harassment,

Discrimination, and Other Workplace Discrimination, and Other Workplace

Misconduct: Hearing Before the H. Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet, 116th Cong. (2020),
https://www.congress.gov/event/ 116th-congress/house-event/110505.
Report	H.R. Rep. 117-27, at 5 (2021).
S. Rep. No. 99-146, at 363, as
reprinted in 1986 U.S.C.C.A.N. 42,
412.

Misconduct: Hearing Before the H. Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet, 116th Cong. (2020),
https://www.congress.gov/event/ 116th-congress/house-event/110505.
H.R. REP. 117-27, at 5 (2021).
S. REP. NO. 99-146, at 363, as
reprinted in 1986 U.S.C.C.A.N. 42,
412.


State statute	Colo. Rev. Stat. § 13-90-107 (2021).	COLO. REV. STAT. § 13-90-107 (2021).


State statute with topic convention
Rules, restatements, model rules, and uniform acts

Federal and state cases

N.Y. Gen. Bus. Law § 349 (McKinney 2021).

Fed. R. App. P. 32(a).
Restatement (Third) of Agency § 2.01 (Am. L. Inst. 2006).
Unif. Trade Secrets Act §1(4) (Unif. L. Comm’n 1985) (as amended).
South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc., 138 S. Ct. 2080 (2018).

N.Y. GEN. BUS. LAW § 349 (McKinney 2021).

FED. R. APP. P. 32(a).
RESTATEMENT (THIRD) OF AGENCY §
2.01 (AM. L. INST. 2006).
UNIF. TRADE SECRETS ACT §1(4) (UNIF.
L. COMM’N 1985) (as amended).

If used in the main text, the case name is italicized.

Pincheira v. Allstate Ins. Co., 190 P.3d If cited in a footnote, the case name is









Pending or

322 (N.M. 2008).






Facteau v. Clinton Cnty. Bd. of

in regular roman type (not italicized):
South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc., 138 S. Ct. 2080 (2018).
Pincheira v. Allstate Ins. Co., 190 P.3d 322 (N.M. 2008).
If used in the main text, the case name

unreported case Elections, No. 533784, 2021 WL	is italicized.



270

H. TABLES










Pending case (petition for certiorari filed)















State case with public-domain parallel citation and year embedded in citation


3684296, at *2 (N.Y. App. Div. Aug. 19, 2021) (per curiam).




Sportswear, Inc. v. Savannah Coll. of Art & Design, 983 F.3d 1273 (11th Cir. 2020), petition for cert. filed 89
U.S.L.W. 3344 (U.S. March 31, 2021)
(No. 20-1391).
Or:
Sportswear, Inc. v. Savannah Coll. of Art & Design, 983 F.3d 1273 (11th Cir. 2020), petition for cert. filed (No.
20-1391),
https://www.scotusblog.com/case- files/cases/sportswear-inc-v- savannah-college-of-art-and-design- inc-2/.
State v. Blagg, 2021-NCSC-66, ¶ 15, 858 S.E.2d 268, 274.


If cited in a footnote:
Facteau v. Clinton Cnty. Bd. of Elections, No. 533784, 2021 WL 3684296, at *2 (N.Y. App. Div. Aug. 19, 2021) (per curiam).
If used in the main text, the case name is italicized.
If cited in a footnote:
Sportswear, Inc. v. Savannah Coll. of Art & Design, 983 F.3d 1273 (11th Cir. 2020), petition for cert. filed, 89
U.S.L.W. 3344 (U.S. March 31, 2021)
(No. 20-1391).








If used in the main text, the case name is italicized.
If cited in a footnote:
State v. Blagg, 2021-NCSC-66, ¶ 15, 858 S.E.2d 268, 274.

Book	Anjali Vats, The Color of Creatorship: Intellectual Property, Race, and the Making of Americans (2020).

ANJALI VATS, THE COLOR OF CREATORSHIP: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, RACE, AND THE MAKING OF AMERICANS(2020).
Note that editor, translator, and edition information is in regular caps, not small caps like the author and title.

Chapter in a	Sung Hui Kim, The Ethics of In-House Sung Hui Kim, The Ethics of In-House

collected work

Practice, in Lawyers in Practice:

Practice, in LAWYERS IN PRACTICE:




271

The Indigo Book







Journal article
(with consecutive pagination, as common with law reviews)
Journal or


Ethical Decision Making in Context (Leslie C. Levin & Lynn Mather eds., 2012).
Elizabeth G. Porter & Kathryn A. Watts, Visual Rulemaking, 91 N.Y.U.
L. Rev. 1183 (2016).





Elizabeth Kolbert, The Lost Canyon,


ETHICAL DECISION MAKING IN CONTEXT
(Leslie C. Levin & Lynn Mather eds., 2012).
Elizabeth G. Porter & Kathryn A. Watts, Visual Rulemaking, 91 N.Y.U.
L. REV. 1183 (2016).





Elizabeth Kolbert, The Lost Canyon,

magazine article New Yorker, Aug. 16, 2021, at 40, 42. (nonconsecutive
pages)

Newspaper    Adam Liptak, Supreme Court Rules
for Cheerleader Punished for Vulgar Snapchat Message, N.Y. Times, June 23, 2021, at A1.
Internet	Farhad Manjoo, Why You Should
Never, Ever Use Two Spaces After a Period, Slate (Jan. 11, 2011, 6:00 AM), https://slate.com/technology/2011/ 01/two-spaces-after-a-period-why- you-should-never-ever-do-it.html

NEW YORKER, Aug. 16, 2021, at 40, 42.



Adam Liptak, Supreme Court Rules for Cheerleader Punished for Vulgar Snapchat Message, N.Y. TIMES, June 23, 2021, at A1.
Farhad Manjoo, Why You Should Never, Ever Use Two Spaces After a Period, SLATE (Jan. 11, 2011, 6:00
AM), https://slate.com/technology/ 2011/01/two-spaces-after-a-period- why-you-should-never-ever-do-it.html


T20	Table of Citation Guides
Attempting to comprehensively capture every single rule and practice of U.S. and international legal citation is simply not possible. We attempt in this table to direct the reader to a series of other citation guides that are readily available online, providing further guidance.

T20.1	General Legal Citation Guides (Online)

1. Dionne Anthon, The Bluebook Uncovered: A Practical Guide to Mastering Legal Citation (Twenty-First Edition of The Bluebook)(2020).
2. Cardiff University, Cardiff Index to Legal Abbreviations (2011).
3. University of Chicago Law Review, The Maroonbook: The University of Chicago


272

H. TABLES

Manual of Legal Citation (2016).
4. Peter W. Martin, Introduction to Basic Legal Citation (online ed. 2020).
5. Washington University in St. Louis Global Studies Law Review, International Citation Manual.

T20.2 Country-Specific Citation Guides

1. New Zealand Law Foundation, New Zealand Law Style Guide, 2nd Edition, (2011).
2. Faulty of Law, University of Oxford, Oxford University Standard for Citation of Legal Authorities (2006).
3. SILC, Standard Indian Legal Citation (Working Draft).
4. University of Melbourne, Australian Guide to Legal Citation (4th ed. 2018).











































273

The Indigo Book


I. CODICIL
Editor’s Note (2021): The Codicil will be updated with additional information about the Second Edition. This is the Codicil from the First Edition.
The Indigo Book: A Manual of Legal Citation is distributed as a single document coded with the HTML 5 and Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) standards.
Each rule and section of the file have a unique ID, making them individually addressable. Examples are:

• Each Rule has an ID starting with the letter R and then the rule number. For example, Rule 1.1 can be addressed by adding #R1.1 to the URL.
• Each Section has an ID starting with the letter S and then the rule letter. For example, the Codicil can be addressed by adding #SK to the URL.
• Each Table has an ID starting with the letter T and then the table number. For example, Table T1.1 can be addressed by adding #T1.1 to the URL.

The header of the file calls two open source Google fonts. If those fonts are not available, the CSS style sheet falls back to Georgia, which is present on most computers, and then to the generic serif font. The fonts we use are:

• For the cover, Alice, which was designed by Ksenia Erulevich and inspired by Lewis Carrol's novel.
• For the body of the document, Libre Baskerville, based on the 1941 American Type Founder's Baskerville, but optimized for web use.

To clearly distinguish our work from other citation manuals, we have forgone the use of the color Royal Blue in favor of Indigo, in solidarity with the ryots of Bengal who were oppressed by the insatiable British demand for blue and the profits that flowed from it, leading to the Nilbridroha (Indigo revolt) and the beginning of the road that led to independence.
The CSS has been coded with support for printing on US Letter size paper. We use Prince XML to convert the HTML document to PDF format.
It is also possible to dynamically change the styles to perform tasks such as making all text in italics “pop” by turning it crimson or back to normal.
To create a file for use in Microsoft Word, an easy method is to comment out the calls to Google fonts, upload the document to Google Docs, and then downloading it in Word format.



274

J. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS


J. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The Second Edition of The Indigo Book: A Manual of Legal Citation (2021) was edited by Professor Jennifer Murphy Romig. Professor Romig was assisted by Emory University School of Law students Annabelle Bichler, Nancy Jin, and Akhil Morissetti, as well as Daniel Kaltman. Professor Romig would also like to thank Mindy Goldstein, Mark T. Gray, Mike Lissner, Amber Madole, Olivia Marbutt, Sue Payne, Robin Pederson, Blake Reid, Heather Simmons, Allison Thornton, and David Ziff for valuable comments and feedback, as well as Christopher Sprigman for his insightful feedback, wise counsel, and steadfast support of The Indigo Book. Professor Romig thanks Jeannette Livingston for exploring the ins and outs of Microsoft Word to assist this project. Professor Romig is grateful to Ben Chapman and Zach Stevenson for technical advice, and of course Frank Bennett and Carl Malamud. Professor Romig is also grateful to her daughter Laura Romig for proofreading assistance and helpful feedback.








































275


































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































